6 of the 8 people killed in the Atlanta-area massage-parlor shootings were Asian women

Porter, Tom

Others

2021-03-17

• Six of the eight people shot dead Tuesday in and near Atlanta were Asian women, authorities say.
• As of early Wednesday, none had been named, but some details were available.
• A 21-year-old white man, Aaron Robert Long, has been arrested over the killings.
* See more stories on Insider's business page.
Most of the people shot dead in massage parlors in and near Atlanta on Tuesday were Asian women.
Law enforcement said that six of the eight victims fit that category. The other two killed were a white woman and a white man.
The killings took place at three businesses in two locations, authorities said. The first was at Young's Asian Massage Parlor in Cherokee County, just outside Atlanta.
Four people were killed there, according to the sheriff's department: two Asian women and the two white victims.
Later, the police were called to Gold Spa in Atlanta, about 30 miles away. The Atlanta Police Department said it found three women shot dead there and a fourth at
Aromatherapy Spa just across the road.
None of the women have been named. According to CNN, authorities are withholding the identities while they inform the victims' next of kin.
According to local Korean-language outlet Atlanta K, the women killed in the Gold Spa were of Korean descent, with one victim in her mid-50s and another in her
mid-70s.
Foreign-ministry officials in South Korea said they had confirmed that four of the women were of Korean descent and were investigating to see whether other victims
were as well.
Robert Aaron Long, 21, has been named by the Atlanta police as the suspect in all eight killings. He was arrested after a car chase south of Atlanta in Crisp County,
some 150 miles away.
-Stop AAPI Hate (@StopAAPIHate) March 17, 2021
Parts of the strip where the last shootings took place are known as Atlanta's red-light district, according to local reports.
No motive for the shootings has been established, but they come amid a spike in attacks on Asian Americans during the COVID-19 pandemic.
A recent study found that reports of hate crimes against Asian Americans increased 150% during the pandemic, while 7% fewer hate crimes overall were reported
during that time.
President Joe Biden addressed the surge in a televised address Friday, calling it "un-American" and saying "it must stop."
In a statement posted on Twitter, the Stop AAPI Hate group, formed to combat the surge in hate crimes, described the killings as an "unspeakable tragedy."
"The reported shootings of Asian American women on Tuesday in Atlanta is an unspeakable tragedy - for the families of the victims first and foremost, but also for the
AAPI community - which has been reeling from high levels of racial discrimination," said the statements.
