Unafraid of attacks: Asian American people in Miss. Delta have no fear against violence

Rowe, Keisha; Haselhorst, Sarah

Others

2021-03-20

Attacks against Asian American people in the United States have been on the rise since the COVID-19 pandemic began, but for some residents in the Mississippi Delta, the thought of a similar event there feels unfathomable.
The Delta is different. It's insulated from the metropolitan world that's seen an uptick in violence toward Asian American people.
"I'm aware of the situation and I'm horrified," said Gilroy Chow, an 80-year-old retired Chinese American plant engineer who lives in Clarksdale. "I can't say whether or not it was racially-motivated, but I am horrified that it happened."
Asian American people make up 1% of Mississippi's population. Chinese American people living in the Delta hold a particularly rich history and still thrive as part of one of the most racially-diverse areas in the state.
Around 1870, Chinese people immigrated from China's Guangdong province to the Mississippi Delta for economic opportunity. They went on to open dozens of family-run grocery stores in Black neighborhoods dotted along the Mississippi River.
While marginal, Asian communities in the state remain tight-knit. Chow would know.
He's lived in Mississippi most of his life, but he can't recall a time he experienced anything to make him feel targeted in the state. He and his wife raised their two children in their Delta home.
What happened was terrible, Chow said, but he isn't sure it couldn't have happened to anyone else in Atlanta. He said he's more concerned about his family catching COVID-19 than by being targeted because of it.
Like Chow, Frieda Quon, 78, is Chinese American, and knows the Mississippi Delta well.
She's lived there her entire life. Having been a librarian at Delta State University before she retired, Quon said she's encountered many people over the years and never experienced racism in the area.
"We're civilized here," she said.
Seeing events over the past year where more Asian American people have been the targets of hate crimes has concerned her, but she said she feels that isn't something that can happen in Mississippi.
"Look down there in Jackson," she said. "You don't really hear of any attacks against Asian people down there."
More attacks could be happening because bigger cities have more people and cramped lifestyles can cause more stress among residents, Quon said. Combined with the COVID-19 pandemic, she said she thinks people are more on edge in general.
For Chow and Quon, the Delta has been a place free of discriminatory violence. According to the U.S. Department of Justice, only six racially-motivated hate crimes were reported in Mississippi in 2019 and none them occurred in the Delta region.
But outside that pocket, and into the bigger cities Quon talk about, the Tuesday incident in Atlanta is among the surge of violence toward Asian American people in the past year.
Atlanta Police Department officials have not ruled out the possibility to classify the shootings as hate crimes, but several organizations across the country and President Joe Biden have condemned the attacks as such.
Racist rhetoric stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic, which originated in a market in Wuhan, China, is believed to have sparked these incidents of violence and harassment, according to data collected by Stop AAPI Hate.
The organization, formed to combat pandemic-driven racism against Asian American Pacific Islander communities, reported 3,795 incidents from March 19, 2020, to Feb. 28.
Verbal harassment and the deliberate avoidance of Asian American people made up 88% of reported incidents within the past year, but another 11% accounted for physical assaults. Of incidents recorded by Stop AAPI Hate, Chinese American people were the largest ethnic group to suffer discrimination.
