Asian Americans urged to be cautious: Kulkarni to lead vigil Sunday in Louisville

Kenning, Chris

Others

2021-03-20

With violence increasing against Asian Americans nationwide in the wake of "China Virus" rhetoric, a Kentucky Chinese-American group is urging members to be cautious while calling on political leaders to step up denunciations of anti-Asian harassment and hate speech.
Changzheng Wang, a leader of the Kentucky Chinese American Association, said while he wasn't aware of violent attacks in the state, the recent Atlanta mass shooting that left six Asian women dead had further ramped-up fears.
"We are very concerned and worried," Wang said. "We've had conversations about the safety of our people. It should never be the case in this county that you should walk out and worry about doing something to you just because of who you are. That's terrible."
On Sunday, Kentucky's only Asian-American legislator, Rep. Nima Kulkarni, will lead a 6 p.m. vigil in Louisville with interfaith and Asian groups in Louisville's Waterfront Park, joining vigils in Georgia, Illinois and New York.
While police are still investigating the motive for the shooting at several Georgia spas, and whether racism was involved, it has nonetheless put a national spotlight on the toxic stew of racism, xenophobia, and misogyny faced by many Asian-American women.
"We need to encourage as much solidarity as possible," Kulkarni said, while also finding ways to better identify and halt anti-Asian incidents.
The rise of such incidents has come amid the coronavirus pandemic, which former President Donald Trump blamed on China. He has referred to COVID-19 as the "China Virus" and the "kung flu."
From March 2020 to February 2021, Stop AAPI Hate, a group that tracks discrimination and xenophobia against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, received 3,800 reports of anti-Asian hate, with women reporting hate incidents 2.3 times more than men.
The report only ranked the top 18 states for such incidents, which did not include Kentucky or Indiana.
Neither the Louisville Metro Police nor the Lexington Police responded when The Courier Journal asked whether they had seen any reports or upticks in harassment or assaults against Asian Americans.
Catholic Charities migration and refugee officials, who serve residents from Asian countries around the world living in Louisville, said they haven't heard of any instances of violence.
Some incidents that don't rise to the level of assault, such as verbal or online harassment or vandalism, and are likely not being reported, Kulkarni said.
"We'd like to see politicians and police to take steps to prevent this from happening," said Wang, who said his group has urged members to be cautious as they go about their day, including simply going shopping.
"It's just crazy we have to be doing that," he said.
He blamed political "scapegoating" for fueling anti-Asian sentiment but said it only tapped into an "age-old problem" of discrimination toward Asians in the United States.
The Pew Research Center reported last year that 31% of Asian adults surveyed said they were the target of racial slurs or jokes since the pandemic began. On Twitter, the hashtag #StopAsianHate has led many to share experiences of discrimination.
Dan Wu, the Asian-American owner of Atomic Ramen in Lexington, recently wrote in the Lexington Herald-Leader of the daily "small acts of casual racism encountered by folks like me."
Reporter Chris Kenning can be reached at ckenning@gannett.com or folllow on Twitter @chris_kenning
If you go
Kentucky Rep. Nima Kulkarni will lead a 6 p.m. vigil Sunday in Louisville with interfaith and Asian groups in Louisville's Waterfront Park to confront violence against Asian Americans.
