Ohio must strengthen hate crime protections

Davis, Gabe

Others

2020-04-26

Don't look now, but Donald Trump is dangerously stoking the fires of bigotry and ethnic intimidation during a crisis, while elected Republicans responsible for upholding our laws and promoting public safety are silent.
For days in March, while COVID-19 raged, Trump eagerly fueled anti-Asian sentiment by calling it "the Chinese virus," even as the FBI warned the country that hate crimes against Asian Americans were likely to "surge" because of stereotypes about the virus.
Rather than stop there, Trump took his bigotry to the airwaves in April and ran a sleazy ad against former vice president Joe Biden. The ad tries to attack Biden by splicing clips to falsely suggest that the former governor of Washington, who is Asian American and a colleague of Biden's, was really an official of the Chinese government.
All of this has unfolded against a backdrop of hundreds of reports from around the country of rising harassment and hate crimes: increased attacks against members of the Asian/Asian American/Pacific Islander (AAPI) community.
Such acts have even included physical assaults in New York and Texas, where an Asian American family, including two young children, were stabbed by a man who said he acted because he thought the family was spreading the coronavirus.
Ohio is not immune. In our state, we are proudly home to 350,000 AAPI residents. According to an open letter condemning coronavirus-fueled racism that was organized by the Ohio Progressive Asian Women's Leadership and signed by over 100 Ohio organizations, children across Ohio have recently experienced increased bullying based on their AAPI heritage.
Tragically, we know from examples like that involving Emilie Olsen – a 13-year-old Chinese American girl from Fairfield who committed suicide in 2014 after being bullied in part based on her heritage – that such harassment can have deadly consequences.
Hamilton County is also not immune. According to the FBI, of all major cities in Ohio, Cincinnati recently had the highest per capita rate of reported hate crimes, with 30 incidents in 2018 alone. Given that hate crimes are notoriously underreported, it is almost certain that more are occurring.
I know from my experience prosecuting hate crimes when I was a federal prosecutor, that Hamilton County has seen its fair share of them. Sadly, we have also looked the other way, such as when a Cincinnati jury acquitted an attacker for the tragic beating and murder of Vincent Chin in an infamous anti-AAPI hate crime from the 1980s.
With the recent rise in hate crimes and harassment, it is painfully clear that we must do more to strengthen our hate crime protections. Specifically:
We must call on Ohio lawmakers to change our ethnic intimidation law, so committing a hate crime is an automatic felony offense.
We should also expand Ohio's hate crime law to cover sexual orientation, gender identity, and those with disabilities.
We should tap special prosecutors trained in hate crimes to handle these cases through a Civil Rights Division at the Hamilton County Prosecutor's Office, which I have previously called for creating.
Finally, we should elect a prosecutor who will not be silent in the face of these kinds of attacks, or Trump's inciteful behavior – not during this crisis, and not ever.
We need a prosecutor who will call out the dangerous rhetoric, because words matter and can lead to violence.
We need a prosecutor who will build bridges with members of our AAPI, African American, and Latinx communities, and all communities that are vulnerable to bias crimes.
We need a prosecutor who will learn from other elected prosecutors and set up innovative mechanisms such as hate crime hotlines.
Finally, we need a prosecutor who will actively encourage victims of potential hate crimes to tell law enforcement, because the law cannot address what it does not know.
We do not currently have such a leader in the prosecutor's office, which is why I'm running, and asking for your support. We must meet hate and fear with action, and we must do it together. In the words of Martin Luther King Jr., "Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere."
We are all in this together.
Gabe Davis is seeking the Democratic nomination for Hamilton County prosecutor in the Ohio Primary Election.