New York City Sees Rise in Coronavirus Hate Crimes Against Asians; The NYPD is planning a social media campaign to promote a message of unity, officials said

Chapman, Ben

Others

2020-04-02

Coronavirus-related hate crimes against Asian-Americans have risen in New York City, according to new New York Police Department data.
Since March 7, the NYPD has received complaints of 11 hate crimes related to the disease, police officials said Wednesday, ranging from harassment to assault—all of them targeting New Yorkers with Asian backgrounds. NYPD officers have made arrests in seven of those cases.
The incidents occurred in neighborhoods in all five boroughs of the city, officials said.
In one incident, police said, a 51-year-old woman riding a bus in the Bronx was attacked by three 15-year-old girls who beat her with an umbrella, causing injuries to the woman's face that required stitches. The girls were arrested at the scene and charged with assault as a hate crime, police said.
In another case, a woman and her boyfriend were attacked on a subway car in Brooklyn by a man who called them slurs before hitting the woman with an umbrella and punching the man, police said. That suspect remains at large.
The jump in hate crimes related to the coronavirus comes as hate crimes fall overall, police said. There were 90 hate crimes recorded by the NYPD between Jan. 1 and March 29 of this year, compared with 112 such crimes during the same period last year.
NYPD Chief of Detectives Rodney Harrison said the department is addressing virus-related hate crimes through aggressive policing and educating the public on the importance of following laws as the pandemic grips New York .
"We can't allow this thing to separate us," Mr. Harrison said in an interview Wednesday. "We have to work together, and we can't choose a certain community to blame them in regards to what's going on."
The NYPD will soon begin a social media campaign to promote a message of unity, he said.
Stay Informed
Get a coronavirus briefing six days a week, and a weekly Health newsletter once the crisis abates: Sign up here .
Richard Green, chief executive of a Brooklyn nonprofit called the Crown Heights Youth Collective, said a misguided belief that Chinese people are responsible for the virus may be behind some of the attacks.
"The community needs to be taught that there is not a raciality to it," Mr. Green said.
State Assemblyman Ron Kim, a Democrat who represents parts of Queens, said he is planning to host a series of virtual town hall meetings to build solidarity around the pandemic.
"I am beyond disappointed that there are racists out there who are quick to blame and scapegoat us for this," said Mr. Kim, who was born in South Korea and raised in Queens.
Overall, crime in New York City has fallen since the virus struck , with the number of arrests falling by nearly 63% for the last week in March, compared with the same week in 2019, according to NYPD statistics.
But certain crimes have spiked, including auto thefts, which were up nearly 39% for that week, compared with the year before.