New York City Has Logged 248 Complaints of Coronavirus Discrimination; Majority of reports were made in March and April; about 42% have been specifically anti-Asian

Yang, Stephanie

Others

2020-04-19

Coronavirus-related discrimination in New York City is on the rise, particularly against Asian-Americans, prompting the city to establish a new response team to handle the complaints.
The city's Commission on Human Rights said since Feb. 1 it has received 248 complaints of discrimination spurred by fears over Covid-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus . The majority of complaints were made in March and April, and about 42% have been specifically anti-Asian.
The influx of calls prompted the commission to form a task force in early April to address the incidents, including discrimination in housing or employment based on race, age, immigration status or disability. Several of the calls were from disabled or immunocompromised tenants whose landlords or co-op boards had restricted deliveries of groceries or other purchases.
"The response team came together because we saw that we had so many inquiries coming in after this pandemic started," said Sapna Raj, deputy commissioner of the commission's law enforcement bureau. "We realized we needed to respond rapidly to unique issues that New Yorkers were facing."
The commission acts as a city watchdog and enforces human-rights laws. It can seek civil penalties against an individual or business accused of discrimination.
Between Feb. 1 and April 16, the commission received 105 reports of anti-Asian incidents, compared with five in the same time frame last year. Out of the discrimination reports, 91 were for harassment, five were for housing and nine were for public accommodation.
Hate crimes against Asian-Americans have risen this year as well, while the number of overall crimes in New York City has fallen. Between March 7 and April 2, the New York Police Department has received reports of 11 hate crimes related to the disease and made seven arrests.
Following an inquiry, the human-rights commission may advise on a caller's rights and intervene, or open up a longer-term investigation. If the commission determines the complaint to be a hate crime, the case is passed along to the NYPD Hate Crime Task Force.
As the original coronavirus outbreak in China morphed into a global pandemic , Chinese-Americans and others of Asian descent have reported more cases of racism and discrimination. However, broader data on the discrimination is sparse.
Manjusha P. Kulkarni, executive director of the Asian Pacific Policy and Planning Council, said members of Asian communities may be reluctant to report incidents because of immigration and policing concerns.
She said the organization was alerted to its first coronavirus-related discrimination issue in early February, after a middle-school child in Los Angeles was accused by another student of having the disease. An online form for reporting similar cases that launched on March 19 has garnered about 1,500 responses across 46 states, most notably in California and New York, ranging from refusal of service to physical attacks.
"Even though the numbers are small overall, I think it's an indication of what we're seeing across the country," Ms. Kulkarni said. "All those efforts are important to get a better understanding of the problem."
Wayne Ho, president of the Chinese-American Planning Council, a nonprofit that provides social services to Asian-Americans, said he started noticing the fallout as early as January, in the form of snide remarks and the avoidance of Chinese businesses.
Mr. Ho said new policies and enforcement of legislation can help protect against discrimination in housing and jobs, but an increase in harassment requires more social outreach.
"I have staff members who have been spit on by people, people have yelled at them or made comments on the subway," he said. "People have thrown everything from pieces of paper to their leftover lunch."