ASIAN AMERICAN HARASSMENT: Atlanta PD unit looks into defamatory signs posted around city: Official says plaques may not meet criteria of bias-motivated crime.

Habersham, Raisa

Others

2020-04-23

Hodgepodge Coffeehouse owner Kristle Rodriguez received a text from her employee about the sign: a round plaque glued to the Moreland Avenue building that's home to her restaurant depicting Winnie the Pooh eating a bat with chopsticks below the words "Wuhan Plague."
The signs have been popping up around East Atlanta on a variety of buildings and fixtures. Atlanta Police Department's Homeland Security Unit, which investigates bias- motivated crimes, has been notified about the signs but so far no arrests have been made.
"It's doing nothing but reinforcing really awful stereotypes," said Rodriguez, who posted a photo of the sign on her social media page to mixed reactions. "I have Asian American friends that said it's allergy season and they're afraid to sneeze in public because of all of the hate speech."
Asian Americans have reported increased harassment around the globe since the coronavirus outbreak originated in Wuhan, China. Asians make up 4% of Atlanta's population, according to U.S. Census data.
For the past week, Atlanta police have received calls about the signs, which appear to be small, bronze-colored plaques that are glued in place. According to three police reports, the first was seen April 13 on an electrical box in front of 188 Waverly Way in Inman Park. Another was found on April 16 on a city lamp post near the intersection of Wylie and Flat Shoals in Reynoldstown. A third was found on the Candler Park Market on April 18.
Owners for One Moreland, the building where Hodgepodge is located, turned in a video of the sign to Atlanta police.
Atlanta police spokesman Carlos Campos said the department's Homeland Security Unit has been notified about the plaques, but added they don't appear to meet the criteria for a bias crime.
"Ifsomeoneweretobeidentified as placing them, any charges would have to be looked at on a case-by-case basis, depending largely on whether any damage was done to the property to which the medallion is being affixed,"Campos said.
For the plaques to be considered a bias crime, there must be evidence the crime was committed based on the victim's race, religion or sex, or another identifier. Because Georgia doesn't have a hate crime statute, police would have to confer with the FBI and the U.S. Attorney's Office before they could prosecute the case under federal hate crime laws.
Animator and muralist Rod Ben, 35, of Tucker, said the plaques' overt Asian metaphors invite people to place blame for the coronavirus on those from Asian countries and Asian American residents.
"No one feels safe," said Ben, who is Cambodian and Vietnamese. "I'm worried for my parents going to the grocery store. Even older people are being harassed and attacked, and if you're not going to leave old people alone, where is (the harassment) going to stop?"
