Opinion: Amid coronavirus crisis, we must fight hate

None

Others

The coronavirus pandemic has already shown that times of crisis bring out the best in our fellow citizens. We experience it every day as we marvel at the heroic actions of first- responders, health care professionals, charities and community volunteers. Sadly, however, crises can also bring out the worst. That is why we need to remain vigilant in the fight against hate, conspiracies and scapegoating. Law enforcement, civil rights organizations and media outlets are reporting on increased hate crimes against Asian- Americans, due to the completely mistaken and wrongheaded belief that they have culpability for the pandemic.
While it's clear the Chinese government covered up key information about the coronavirus' initial outbreak in Wuhan, we need to remember that it is the people of China who were the first victims of this policy. Now Asian-Americans of all backgrounds are becoming the targets of harassment, insults and violence.
A man in Texas faces attempted murder charges for attacking an Asian-American family of four in a supermarket and stabbing three of them, including a two-year-old and a six- year-old child, claiming they were responsible for spreading coronavirus.
The website Stop AAPI Hate has fielded over 1,500 recent hate incident reports including 11 in New York City. Such scapegoating is particularly outrageous when one considers that 17% of doctors and 10% of nurses in our country those putting their lives on the line to help pro tect our families and neighbors are Asian-American.
Jews are all too familiar with disease-related scapegoating throughout history.
During the Black Plague in Europe in the Middle Ages, Jewish people were scapegoated and killed mercilessly by fanatics across the continent. Over 600 entire Jewish communities were destroyed. Many killers claimed that Jews had poisoned wells to spread the plague, or that the plague was a Jewish plot to decimate Christian communities. Never mind that Jews died in horrific numbers during the plague as well. Sadly, modern anti-Semites are right now on the internet weaving similarly insane conspiracy theories blaming Jews for spreading coronavirus.
Indeed, the Simon Wiesenthal Center just turned over a list of some 45 channels on social media platforms like Telegram and Gab to United States Attorney General William Barr and Homeland Security that promote lurid conspiracy theories linking Jews to the pandemic and urging those suffering from CoronaVirus to go to synagogues and mosques to spread the deadly virus.
None of us is immune from accidentally falling prey to misinformation that can hurt our neighbors. One of us Councilman Joshi posted a thoughtless tweet that potentially could have hurt my Jewish neighbors. As an Indo-American I should have known better. I apologized and toured the nearby Jewish community and learned first-hand of their commitment and struggle to help fight the pandemic.
Working together with all people of good faith we will hopefully soon be beneficiaries of a vaccine to stop the pandemic. But no one has yet come up with a cure for history's oldest virus hate.
We all must reject any and all efforts seeking to conflate justified anger at the Chinese communist government with anger towards Asian-Americans. This is the height of hypocrisy, and insulting to the many Chinese-Americans who fled to our country specifically to escape repression by the Chinese government. We should never blame immigrants from any country for the actions of a foreign government that they have no control over.
What can we do to fight hate and protect our neighbors? First, be sure to report any incidents to the proper authorities. Please also submit anti-Asian American incidents in New Jersey to the office of Councilman Sam Joshi and to national Stop AAPI Hate website. If you experience an anti-Semitic incident or see anti-Semitic remarks on social media please contact ireport@wiesenthal.com.
Also, continue to check in on your neighbors regardless of their background. The pandemic has taught us that we are all in the same boat. Let's be sure we don't allow the bigots to exploit this crisis. By showing we care about each other, we can emerge from the pandemic stronger and more united than ever.
Sam Joshi is vice president of the Edison Township Council. Rabbi Abraham Cooper is associate dean and director of Global Social Action of the Simon Wiesenthal Center, a leading Jewish human rights nonprofit.
