'I've never been leered at so much': The rise of sexual harassment on our lockdown streets

None

Others

2020-04-21

As International Anti-Street Harassment Week begins, Everyday Sexism's Laura Bates reports on the pandemic side-effect few expected
There’s a joke going around on social media about women and coronavirus. No, not one of the myriad sexist gags circulating about women ‘letting themselves go’ in isolation or men risking infection to get away from their nagging wives. This joke goes that women must love lockdown because at least creepy men aren’t able to harass them any more, thanks to social distancing rules.
Unfortunately, in reality, the opposite seems to be true.
Since writing an article last month about the gendered impact of the pandemic, I’ve been deluged with messages from women describing their recent experiences ahead of International Anti-Street Harassment Week, which runs until April 25.
One woman was walking down the street with her four-year old daughter when men started shouting "slut" at her. Another hasn't even been able to walk her dog without being shouted at. Many have described running a distressing gauntlet of sexual comments while exercising. Women have been catcalled in their own front gardens, pursued by men in cars and vans, and followed home.
And a significant number of women, from multiple countries, are reporting that the situation has worsened dramatically during lockdown.
“Is anyone else experiencing more street harassment than usual at this time?” asked one. “Leering and sexual harassment seems to be rife. I have never been ogled, stared at or catcalled so frequently,” wrote another. Several simply agreed: “it seems worse now.”
A woman from Washington, who didn’t want to be named, was walking in her neighbourhood when a man started staring hard at her and then began to follow her. When she crossed the street, so did he. Shops and businesses were shuttered - there was nowhere to go. Finally, she was able to retreat into a corner shop. He followed her. When she asked him to leave her alone, he slammed the iron gate of the shop in anger. After he finally disappeared, she burst into tears.
“I’m used to street harassment,” told me, but during the pandemic, there is “extra fear of someone getting close to you, more fear when there aren’t witnesses, more fear when you can’t rush into an open store for help because most of them are closed.”
Holly Kearl, founder of US non-profit Stop Street Harassment, has been collecting stories of abuse in public spaces. From Argentina to France, she says women have been reporting a spike in street harassment during lockdown. She adds: “Racism and xenophobia is making street harassment worse for those of Asian descent in many parts of the world, including the US, [where] there has been a huge rise in racial harassment against Asian-Americans.”
Emily May, Co-Founder and Executive Director of global grassroots movement Hollaback!, agrees, giving the example of a woman who was walking down the street when a man shouted at her to “keep your Asian disease away”.
In Australia, Melbourne-based campaign It’s Not a Compliment has also seen “a real shift” towards “racially-motivated incidents being targeted at women by complete strangers”. Co-founders Aakanksha Manjunath and Annelise Lecordier told me: “These are issues that have always existed in our society and only require events like this pandemic to bubble up to the surface.”
They say widespread feelings of anger and helplessness have created “an opportunity for some to express these opinions in what they feel is now a more accepting climate... We’ve heard stories of international students being verbally abused while wearing face masks at tram stops, racial slurs being thrown at Asian-Australians while out in public ... Now, this has started to escalate to assault with people reporting being spat on or punched for wearing a face mask. These stories are unfortunately becoming more common and are sadly going mostly unreported.”
With the virus still spreading, some have questioned the importance of an event like International Anti-Street Harassment week during the current crisis.
But May has a robust response: “We know that this moment will change us. What we don’t know yet is how. Do we want to return to a world where girls and women receive nasty, sexualised comments about their bodies? No. We didn’t want that world to begin with. Now we have a break in the action to rethink what we want and build towards what's possible.”
Kearl adds: “Now is the time to plan for a future that has safer public spaces for all-to learn how to be a bystander; to talk about consent and respect and the right way to interact in public spaces.”
And if anyone has a blueprint for what that safer future might look like, it is the Washington woman who was pursued for several blocks. Because after she finally entered the corner shop, she and the owner exchanged “a look between women that we all know too well”, before the owner asked where she lived, locked up her shop and walked her home.
Hollaback! And Asian Americans Advancing Justice are offering free online bystander intervention training to combat xenophobic harassment.