Trump hints lockdown could end after 15 days [Times Global]

Chidanand Rajghatta

Others

2020-03-24

The US lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic could begin to draw to a close at the end of the 15-day shutdown this coming weekend, President Trump indicated on Monday, as the cost of the exercise the world is embracing is also decimating the national and global economy.
In all-caps, the US president tweeted: "WE CANNOT LET THE CURE BE WORSE THAN THE PROBLEM ITSELF. AT THE END OF THE 15 DAY PERIOD, WE WILL MAKE A DECISION AS TO WHICH WAY WE WANT TO GO!" He retweeted his own tweet, suggesting that he is aligning with the argument than an indefinite or even a long-drawn lockdown could hurt the world economy for a long time, causing more damage than the virus.
The tweet is seen as a pointer to what could be a gradual removal of restriction with a range of new protocols in place, unless there is an exponentially dramatic and continued surge in infections. Health officials are suggesting that the thermometre gun could become even more ubiquitous than the metal detector security wand, and social distancing, including the end of body contact gestures such as handshakes, could become the norm.
"I will bring it up at the next task force meeting and see whether there's some sort of a logistical, bureaucratic reason why it can't be done. The rationale for doing it is at least worth serious consideration," Dr Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases said in an interview to Science magazine about instituting temperature checks. Already, China and Italy have instituted such checks at most public places, including supermarkets.
While the logistics seem daunting, experts say the technology challenges are fairly easy to overcome; eventually, the same metal detectors at security checkpoints could also be engineered to measure temperature. The danger though is of freelance vigilantism and stigmatisation that is already surfacing across the world.
Aside from an uptick in xenophobia that has put people of East Asian origin in the crosshairs, even US citizens who are self-reporting cases of Covid-19 are being viewed with fear and subjected to harassment. An Indian-American mother of two kids in the Greater Washington area who reported her two high-school children testing Covid-19 positive and alerted her friends to it on social media subsequently deleted her post after the school principal demanded she remove it, ostensibly because it is causing panic in the school. While many friends lauded her courage in alerting the community, others peppered her with questions about how and where her kids contracted it, how and where they were tested, symptoms etc. She did not want to be named because of the amount of harassment she is facing.
Meanwhile, the US president latest thinking on easing the lockdown at the end of the 15-day isolation came even as he admitted he was a "little upset" with over its late sharing of information on coronavirus. "They should have told us about this," he told reporters at a Sunday White House briefing. "I'm a little upset with China. I'll be honest with you, because as much as I like President Xi (Jinping) and as much as I respect and admire the country."
US lawmakers, meantime, are struggling to come up with stimulus package, with Democrats blocking it because they say it favours corporations rather than workers. The situation is also complicated by many lawmakers going into selfisolation. The spouse of Democratic Senator Amy Klobuchar has been diagnosed with Covid-19 infection in addition to two other congressmen and a senator, Kentucky Republican Rand Paul. This is making the passage of legislation tricky. There are now calls from several quarters, including from President Trump, to consider changing rules to enable remote voting -- yet another possible norm change in the future across the world.