WHEN A SLUR SOUNDS NOTHING LIKE THE TRUTH

Norman, Tony

Others

2020-03-20

When President Donald Trump stood before the microphone during a White House briefing about the coronavirus on Wednesday in which he declared himself a "wartime president," it only required a slight adjustment of reality as far as he was concerned.
He had already laid the groundwork in a press conference the day before when he told reporters that contrary to what they had seen, heard and reported for weeks, he never called the coronavirus a "hoax."
"This is a pandemic," he said Tuesday. "I felt it was a pandemic long before it was called a pandemic. All you had to do was look at other countries."
Mr. Trump assumed that just because the heads of the reporters didn't explode from the weight of sheer cognitive dissonance, his Jedi mind trick had somehow worked. It hadn't.
Everyone knew that every word he said was in direct conflict with reality. With several members of the coronavirus task force flanking him, Mr. Trump declared war on an "invisible enemy" he could barely acknowledge weeks before.
So on Wednesday, the task force did not applaud or pin epaulettes on Mr. Trump's shoulder, but they did not embarrass him with gentle rebukes for wasting weeks of precious time that has endangered the public's health, either.
After only a few weeks of working with the Trump administration, these learned men and women have already taken the lessons of George Orwell's "1984" to heart: "The past was alterable. The past has never been altered. Oceania was at war with Eurasia; therefore, Oceania had always been at war with Eurasia."
While Mr. Trump's position on the legitimacy of fears concerning the coronavirus could charitably be described as "fungible" over time, he and his allies have been remarkably consistent about one element - the open embrace of anti-Asian xenophobia and racism for geopolitical advantage.
While everyone is keenly aware of Mr. Trump's clumsy attempts to distract from his administration's incompetence in rallying the nation and marshaling its resources to combat COVID-19, his attempts to racially brand a global disease still can't go unaddressed.
Racism matters. It is only those who have benefited most from the privileges afforded by racism who insist with a straight face that "rising to the Trump administration's bait" by even objecting to it at this time endangers the public health.
It is possible to do two things at once - call out the president's incompetence while also pointing out his racism and those of his surrogates who are trying to rebrand COVID-19 the "Chinese virus" in the middle of a global pandemic.
Bear in mind, these are members of a political party that, until a few days ago, wasn't willing to entertain the possibility that COVID-19 was anything more than an elaborate media hoax concocted to embarrass Mr. Trump, tank the economy and steal the election for the Democrats.
Sen. John Cornyn, one of Texas' two Republican senators, spelled it out for a reporter who quizzed him about the cost of demonizing Asians in a land that has been historically intolerant of them, especially during pandemics.
"That's where it came from," Mr. Cornyn said, as if geographic origin was anything more than a twirl of the dice. "I think China is to blame because the culture where people eat bats and snakes and dogs and things like that, these viruses are transmitted from the animal to the people and that's why China has been the source of a lot of these viruses like SARS, like MERS, the Swine flu, and now the coronavirus," he said. "So I think they have a fundamental problem, and I don't object to geographically identifying where it's coming from."
Mr. Cornyn and his ilk would've objected strongly if the strain of deadly Creutzfeldt-Jakob bovine disease, otherwise known as "Mad Cow disease," that re-emerged on an American farm and in Canada in 2003, had been re-dubbed "North American Mad Cow disease." That's because the Republican senator and all of those eager to paint a
worldwide pandemic as uniquely Chinese are well aware of the power of stigma and what it would mean if it were ever used against many American factory farms where diseases thrive.
To xenophobic ears in America, "China is to blame" translates into "Asians are to blame" at street level, which may explain why Asian Americans of all backgrounds are reporting more assaults and acts of bias and discrimination leveled at them and triggered by COVID-19.
Throughout American history, both political parties have been guilty of using anti-Asian American bias to advance cynical political ends, but it has been the Republicans that have turned an ethnic smear into an art most recently with not-so-subtle dog whistles about what Asians allegedly eat when decent Republicans aren't looking.
While it is true that Chinese authorities have finally shut down the infamous "wet markets" of Wuhan where exotic animals were cooked and served to adventurous natives and tourists, there's more to the origin and spread of this disease than a pot of "bat stew" gone bad.
If we ever hope to understand and treat new versions of this virus going forward, we're going to have to work in concert with the Chinese government and its scientists. A strategy of mutual cooperation might be endangered if China objects to being made the racial boogeyman of the American right, displacing Muslims and Hispanics.
But nativism and racism run thick in Mr. Trump's Republican Party, where most pendants fall back on the excuse for racism that amounts to no more than: "Well, that's where the virus came from so that's what I'm going to call it, no matter what."
If you ask the folks who want to redub COVID-19 the Chinese virus what's wrong with referring to it as the coronavirus without assigning a region to it, they fake offense and accuse you of being both Orwellian and "politically correct."
On Wednesday, senior White House adviser Kellyanne Conway took her defense of the Trump administration to absurd lengths by casually reminding the reporters grilling her that she knows a thing or two about discrimination herself. "I'm married to an Asian," Ms. Conway said referring to conservative attorney George Conway, one of Mr. Trump's fiercest critics.
The reporters didn't know quite what to do with that bit of irrelevant information, so Ms. Conway quipped that since they were all "so obsessed with race," she assumed they were aware of that fact. Again, the reporters scratched their heads over such a pointless non sequitur, hoping against hope that her ultimate point was not that some of her best friends were Asian. Even the Trump administration's highest-ranking propagandist had to do better than that.