Governor says wife, daughters experienced anti-Asian bias amid pandemic

Author Brockell, Gillian

Washington Post

2021-03-15

Family and friends have 'been treated pretty terribly,' he tells CNN
Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan (R) told CNN's Jake Tapper on Sunday morning that anti-Asian harassment during
the coronavirus pandemic has been "a serious problem" for his wife, Yumi, an immigrant from South Korea, and
her three adult daughters.
"They have felt some discrimination personally," he said on Tapper's State of the Union talk show, describing
experiences within his own family and among their close friends, whom he said have "been treated pretty
terribly."
"We feel it personally with my daughter, who sort of is sometimes afraid to come visit us," Hogan said, "with
people who had best friends that were being harassed at the grocery store, or being called names, and people
yelling about the 'China virus,' even though they're from Korea and born in America."
In 2020, reports of hate crimes were down 7 percent nationally but increased 150 percent against people in the
Asian community, according to a study released this month by the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism
at California State University at San Bernardino, which examined police records in 16 of the country's largest cities.
Hogan cited the statistic in the CNN interview, calling it "outrageous" and "unacceptable."
Former president Donald Trump often used the term "China virus" when referring to the coronavirus, which
experts say may have helped stoke anti-Asian sentiment during the pandemic.
On Sunday, Hogan thanked President Biden for condemning anti-Asian discrimination in his first prime-time
address Thursday.
"It's something we have to get under control," the governor said. "And I wish more people would be speaking
out. And I appreciate the president's remarks."
Hogan had expressed similar sentiments on Twitter, posting a photo of himself, the first lady, their children and
grandchildren.
Hogan first met his wife at an art show more than 20 years ago. They married in 2004, with Hogan wearing
traditional Korean garb at the ceremony. Yumi Hogan brought three daughters from her previous marriage. The
blended family is close, and the governor's stepdaughters call him "Dad."
As first lady, Yumi has focused on the arts; she is an abstract landscape painter and art professor. At the time of
Hogan's first inauguration in 2015, she was believed to be the nation's first Korean American first lady.
