Students fear bullying in reaction to new virus Some parents report children of Asian descent have been harassed

Travis, Scott

Others

2020-03-01

Even with no confirmed cases of coronavirus in Florida, some parents fear an outbreak of bullying of Asian children.
Local school districts report no knowledge of kids being harassed as a result of the virus, but several South Florida parents have taken to social media to say their kids are being accused of carrying coronavirus, just because they're Asian.
The virus, which causes the disease COVID-19, originated in Wuhan in the Hubei province in China.
"My son was verbally attacked while walking to the library after school today by a group of boys telling him he shouldn't be here because of the coronavirus," Weston mom Kate Chu wrote in the Facebook group "Weston and Beyond." "When he refused to engage with the offenders by ignoring them, they continued their verbal barrage until it escalated to them physically pushing and grabbing him."
Chu, who could not be reached for comment, posted that the bullies were middle school students and that the principal of her child's school was responsive to her concerns. She encouraged members of the group to "please talk with your kids and teach them to be kind and be respectful of others."
Ivette M. Yee, a marketing profession and the former president of the Florida chapter of the Asian American Journalists Association, said she's been hearing about other issues as well. She said a friend posted on social media that her children were confronted at school by classmates who made similar comments tying them to the virus.
"This is unacceptable and it must stop," Yee said. "I fear that once - and if - the coronavirus reaches the U.S. at a critical mass, these incidents will surely multiply."
Compared to other groups, the number of Asian students in South Florida schools is small. They make up about 3% in Palm Beach County, 3.9% in Broward and 1% in Miami-Dade County. About 20,000 Asian students attend the three districts, records show.
None of the three districts said they were aware of any bullying cases against Asian students. Still, Palm County schools spokeswoman Claudia Shea said the district is including information about treating others with respect as part of a new coronavirus website scheduled to launch Monday.
"We have not seen instances of bad behavior as a reaction to coronavirus concerns. However, it's important to be proactive," Shea said.
The website will include information from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention telling people that "fear and anxiety can lead to social stigma" toward Asian Americans.
"Stigma hurts everyone by creating more fear or anger towards ordinary people instead of the disease that is causing the problem. We can fight stigma and help not hurt others by providing social support," the district's website will say. "We can communicate the facts that being Chinese or Asian American does not increase the chance of getting or spreading COVID-19."
Yee said she has offered to work with the Asian American Journalists Association and other local groups to create
a media campaign to help educate the public about misinformation and bullying.
'I believe we have an opportunity here as communicators, storytellers, and thought leaders to educate and make things right," she said.
This issue raised alarm in Calfornia's San Fernando Valley, after CBS News reported Feb. 14 that a 16-year-old boy ended up in the hospital after being physically attacked by bullies in his high school who accused him of having the coronavirus.
As a result of that attack, the national group OCA-Asian Pacific American Advocates called on school districts, superintendents, parent groups and school administrators to "take proactive measures to educate students surrounding coronavirus and reinforce or implement preventative measures against race-based bullying."
OCA is calling on school districts, superintendents, Parent Teacher Associations, school administrators and staff to take proactive measures to educate students about coronavirus and reinforce or implement preventative measures against race-based bullying.
"It's crucial that schools and administrators around the country act now to prevent further bullying and harassment of ... students rooted in racism and misinformation about coronavirus," said Rita Pin Ahrens, the organization's national executive director.
"Schools are responsible for the safety of all students and need to recognize these fears around coronavirus are manifesting in the classroom and must be addressed before more children are victimized and harmed," Pin Ahrens said.