Coronavirus: there's nothing funny about racism, Chinese-American stand-up Joe Wong says

Huang, Kristin

Others

2020-03-26

US President Donald Trump's apparent decision to stop using xenophobic language in relation to the Covid-19 pandemic did not come a moment too soon for one Chinese- American comedian, who said the problem of racism against Asian people in the US was part of the nation's fabric.
Joe Wong, who moved to the US in the 1990s and completed a PhD in biochemistry at Rice University, Texas, in 2000 before moving on to a successful career in stand-up comedy, said Trump's repeated use of terms like "Chinese virus" was fairly typical of the prevailing attitude in the country.
"When I talk about racism against AsAms [Asian-Americans], people's attitude is 'not you too!' Anti-Asian racism is not even acknowledged as a thing," he said on Twitter. "Asian slurs are pretty well received at live comedy shows. It's so exhausting to fight it every time it happens."
After a rise in the number of reports of physical and verbal attacks on Asian-Americans, Trump spoke out at a coronavirus task force news conference at the White House on Monday.
"They're amazing people and the spreading of the virus is not their fault in any way, shape or form," he said.
Despite the tone of Trump's message, Wong said the language the president used was just another example of the division in American society. "We Asians are referred to as 'they', and 'they' are not 'us'," he said.
A study by San Francisco State University recently found a 50 per cent rise in the number of news articles related to the coronavirus and anti-Asian discrimination between February 9 and March 7.
Lead researcher Russell Jeung, a professor of Asian-American studies, said the figures represented "the tip of the iceberg" as only the most egregious cases would be likely to be reported.
He also said that a website written in six Asian languages he helped set up to gather first-hand accounts of racial abuse had received reports of 150 cases since going live last Thursday.
"Honestly I don't know how can you NOT be angry being an Asian in America now," Wong said on Twitter.
"My son grew up in America, I caught a glimpse of how racial slurs and gestures go around at schools and kindergartens. Yes, kindergartens," he said. "What worries me is the fact that clearly those bullies didn't invent the slurs. They learned them from adults around them."
Authorities in New York on Tuesday responded to the spike in assaults and harassment by opening a hotline to report hate crimes.
That came after E. Tendayi Achiume, the United Nations special rapporteur on racism, mentioned Trump by name in an appeal for governments around the world to stamp out xenophobia in policies and messaging.
"It's dismaying to witness state officials - including the President of the United States - adopting alternative names for the Covid-19 coronavirus," she said.
C.N. Le, director of the Asian & Asian-American Studies Certificate programme at the University of Massachusetts, said phrases like "Chinese virus" played into deeply ingrained stereotypes.
"That term plays off of old racist and xenophobic stereotypes of Asians in general, and Chinese in particular, as filthy, uncivilised, subhuman and, ultimately, inferior to whites and incompatible with the national American identity," he said.
Meanwhile, Wang Yuan, a Chinese student at Northwestern University in Illinois, said she was trying to play her part in fighting Covid-19 by drumming up financial and other support from the Chinese community.
"To combat the pandemic and Sinophobia, Chinese across the States have devoted themselves to monetary/medical supplies donations for hospitals running short of protective gear," she said. "[But] this is not only about any specific racial group's self interest. This is about how we should act in solidarity to combat the pan-demic at this
Wong said it was vital for Asian-Americans from all walks of life to stand up to xenophobia and racism. "I don't blame Asian-Americans who don't speak up, because they have enough on their plates. They have their jobs, they have work to deal with, and to make things worse, a lot of people work with or for a racist," he said.
"[But] a lot of Asian elites don't speak up because they have other interests to protect. That's why I started to talk about this on Twitter, because someone has to."