Chinese Americans fear spike in racism: Activists and politicians decry 'Chinese virus' label

Warikoo, Niraj

Others

2020-03-20


At a news conference Wednesday, Trump defended his use of the phrase when asked by reporters if he was being bigoted in saying "Chinese virus."
"It's not racist at all," Trump said to reporters. "No, not at all. It comes from China. That's why. It comes from China. I want to be accurate."
Like many others, Chinese Americans in metro Detroit are anxious about the spread of coronavirus, but they and others of Asian descent are also worried about racist backlash.
"People are afraid," Shenlin Chen, said president of the Association of Chinese Americans (ACA), a group based in Madison Heights that advocates for Chinese Americans. "People have fear about being discriminated against or treated unfairly."
Since the spread of the coronavirus, there have been reports of Chinese Americans and other Asian American groups perceived to be Chinese being racially attacked or ostracized. In metro Detroit two weeks ago, an elderly Chinese American had his grocery cart spat on by someone, Chen said.
And now, they're concerned this week about how President Donald Trump is increasingly using the phrase "Chinese virus" in his tweets and public remarks. Founded in 1972, the Association of Chinese Americans was expected to release a statement on Thursday criticizing Trump and others who use that phrase.
"As it is plainly clear, there is no reason to attach a racial or ethnic or country moniker on a virus pandemic," a draft copy of the statement reads. "The Covid-19 is present in all of the 50 states of the United States, is prevalent throughout Europe, the Americas, and Asia. Covid-19 does not recognize political borders. ... Attaching a racial, ethnic, or country name to a virus, even informally, serves only to flame the fears and biases of people against Chinese and those of Asian background to no benefit in the battle against the virus pandemic."
The statement added: "We should all work to avoid the misleading terms that detract from our common interest in working to contain the Covid-19 pandemic."
On Wednesday, Attorney General Dana Nessel said in a tweet that "Trump is attempting to incite hatred, violence and discrimination against Chinese Americans. We won't tolerate it in Michigan. Report all suspected hate crimes to your local police dept or to our Hate Crimes Unit. 313-456-0200."
State Sen. Stephanie Chang, D-Detroit, tweeted on Wednesday: "Just a little reminder to not discriminate, attack, or promote hate during #COVID2019. The virus is a virus. It does not have a race or ethnicity."
On Tuesday, U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., wrote on Twitter: "Bigotry against people of Asian descent is unacceptable, un-American, & harmful to our COVID-19 response efforts." Hillary Clinton called Trump's remarks "racist rhetoric" and Joe Biden slammed them as "xenophobic fear-mongering."
At a news conference Wednesday, Trump defended his use of the phrase when asked by reporters if he was being bigoted in saying "Chinese virus." "It's not racist at all," Trump said to reporters. "No, not at all. It comes from China. That's why. It comes from China. I want to be accurate."
Also on Wednesday, U.S. Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, made comments seen as racist when he said "China is to blame because the culture where people eat bats and snakes and dogs and things like that."
There are about 61,000 residents in Michigan of Chinese ancestry, according to 2018 Census figures.
"There is a concern about how people react when we are in various establishments and crowds," said Northville attorney Roland Hwang, secretary of the Association of Chinese Americans and a teacher of Asian American studies at the University of Michigan.
The 1982 murder of Vincent Chin, of Chinese descent, in Highland Park by autoworkers angry at Japanese people the integration of the workforce, is still remembered by many Asian Americans in metro Detroit.
They're worried about any resurgence of anti-Asian racism.
Hwang helped found American Citizens for Justice, an Asian American advocacy group in metro Detroit created after Chin's murder to bring justice for Chin and raise awareness of anti-Asian racism.
"I'm really alarmed by Trump calling the virus a Chinese virus," Hwang said. "There is no geographic, political subdivision, racial or ethnic limitation with respect to the virus."
In addition to the issue of racism, the Chinese American community is grappling with the effects of the coronavirus spread. Linguistic barriers is an issue for some, which the Association of Chinese Americans is trying to help with, Chen said.
A state health official held a meeting two weeks ago with Chinese Americans to work on ways to work together to help bring awareness, she said. Contact Niraj Warikoo: nwarikoo@freepress.com or 313-223-4792. Twitter @nwarikoo.
At a news conference Wednesday, Trump defended his use of the phrase when asked by reporters if he was being bigoted in saying "Chinese virus." "It's not racist at all," Trump said to reporters. "No, not at all. It comes from China. That's why. It comes from China. I want to be accurate."