McConnell silent on 'Chinese virus' term: Some Asian Americans outraged at Trump using it

Trump, Donald J; McConnell, Mitch

Others

2020-03-29

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has had no problem denouncing critics in the past who have blown an anti-Asian dog whistle.
Which is why On Politics asked the senator's office this week what he thought of President Donald Trump using the term "China virus" or "Chinese virus" in remarks about COVID-19.
"Our country is in the midst of a health and economic challenge," said McConnell spokeswoman Stephanie Penn.
I was reminded by Penn how — as majority leader — McConnell is spearheading a bold and comprehensive package to deliver relief for Kentuckians.
"This isn't the time for petty squabbling, but for every American to come together to do their part," Penn concluded.
Asian American advocacy organizations and other researchers don't have firm figures, but they point to a hike in reports about verbal threats and physical assaults targeting their minority group.
A report by San Francisco State University, for example, cited that there was an uptick in reports of discrimination against Asian Americans in the "form of shunning, harassment and physical assaults."
Zhizhi "Wit" Wang, who lives in Lexington, said Trump's hurtful language shouldn't be dismissed by McConnell as "petty squabbling." "I think it's a racist comment," he said. "We would never call Ebola the 'African virus.'"
The 25-year-old University of Kentucky graduate student, who is studying finance, immigrated to the U.S. more than a decade ago. He said Chinese Americans and other Kentuckians of Asian descent feel they are being blamed for a global pandemic.
Wang said he hasn't heard about any violence or verbal threats in Lexington, which has an Asian population of less than 4%, according to census data. But he is troubled by the national headlines coming from parts of the country where more Asian Americans live.
The Kentuckian pleaded with McConnell and others to think about the consequences of Trump's language.
"What is the difference if you just call it coronavirus versus 'Chinese virus?'" Wang asked. "He could have avoided this entire mess but he did not choose to do so."
McConnell certainly didn't bite his tongue when past players in Kentucky politics have used this race card to animate their attacks against him.
During the 2014 Senate campaign, a liberal super PAC called Progress Kentucky alluded to his wife Elaine Chao — who now serves as Trump's transportation secretary — and her Chinese background when criticizing McConnell about letting U.S. jobs move overseas.
The McConnell campaign fired back quickly at the time, and blasted the group for "race-baiting" voters. It did the same when a Democratic consultant referred to Chao, who came to the U.S. from China as a child, as being Asian and not a native Kentuckian.
Team Mitch had zilch to say when asked about Trump's "Chinese virus" comments this week, even as old foes acknowledge the mistake.
"The senator and secretary were on the right side of history in calling out Progress Kentucky's racist tweets, just as I was on the wrong side for trivializing the harm they caused," said Curtis Morrison, an attorney and former Progress Kentucky volunteer. "It is sad to watch now as they tolerate the same racism when it comes from the president."
Morrison figures Trump is just too powerful and too important for McConnell to criticize in public.
The GOP leader didn't refrain from calling out Republican Everett Corley two years ago when it was discovered the small-time state legislative candidate appeared on a white nationalist radio show where the host criticized McConnell's interracial marriage.
"This racist behavior is completely despicable," McConnell said in 2018. "Such backwards views and hateful rhetoric must be given no corner in the Republican Party or anywhere in America."
Pandemic challenges underdogs
Senate Democratic candidates Charles Booker and Mike Broihier were already long shots in the primary battle against presumed front-runner Amy McGrath, and the COVID-19 pandemic gives them a new hurdle.
Across the country, lesser-known candidates are having to ditch door-knocking and direct voter contact. But Booker and Broihier argue the pandemic only changes how people can support them as they shift to the digital realm.
Booker, a state legislator from Louisville, is taking a family-friendly approach while still delivering body blows to McConnell's leadership.
"If you're stuck in the house like we are, why not have a dance party!" Booker said in a Wednesday tweet featuring a video with one of his two daughters. "I know this is a tough time for all of us. So much fear, so much uncertainty. While we fight to weather this time, my hope is that you can still find joy in the little things. My girls do that for me!"
Booker branded himself early as a candidate fueled by grassroots progressives who understood his personal story as a Type 1 diabetic who lost his cousin to gun violence. The virus is forcing him to campaign remotely at a time when close contact with voters and large rallies are discouraged or outright forbidden.
"This movement has always been about meeting people where they are and breaking down barriers to getting involved," Booker said in a news release announcing the decision. "That is what has set our campaign apart to date, and the steps we are taking now are just further proof of our commitment to disrupting the status quo and elevating the voices of every Kentuckian."
Broihier, a retired Marine, is taking advantage by having a nightly online program at 7 across all social media platforms broadcast from his Lincoln County farm.
The program features union leaders, grassroots organizers and average Kentuckians who want to air their concerns.
Broihier also is running digital ads aimed at McConnell that are much fiercer than any Booker or McGrath have aired.
"Only the fear of losing his reelection got 'Corona Mitch' to finally do the right by the American people," he said in a March 19 tweet featuring a new online spot.
"If Mitch McConnell needs to be scared to finally do his job, then I'll keep him scared for the next eight months," Broihier added. "And then we'll beat him."
What Booker and Broihier are losing out on, however, are chances at candidate forums or debates to contrast with McGrath, who is acting as if there is no primary election at all. Many of those events have been canceled, with little chance of rescheduling before the new June 23 primary date.
"A lot of people — even if they have the money — they are not doing the things that they otherwise would have done because they are limiting their lives," said University of Kentucky political science professor Stephen Voss.
What to watch, Voss said, is if skittish Americans will respond to any call for civic engagement as COVID-19 continues to lock down the country.
"You're focusing on 'Do they have the money?' I'd also focus on 'Do they want to go to the post office?'" he said. "Insofar as people are hunkering down, it pulls them away from any kind of public mindedness."
The Booker campaign, however, sees an opportunity to awaken Kentuckians about their liberal platform, which demands structural change whether as a Green New Deal, universal basic income or "Medicare for All."
"The pandemic has made it clear: We need a government that takes care of us," Colin Lauderdale, who is Booker's campaign manager, told supporters in an online letter. "And to have that, we need a senator who will fight for us. If that's what you want, then join us. From at least six feet away."
