Racial harassment reported

STEECKER, MATT

Others

2020-03-20

"These are challenging times for everyone, and we need to band together, not harass or discriminate anyone of any culture in regards to what is happening now."
Dennis Nayor
Ithaca police chief
As the number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Tompkins County have increased to six, Ithaca officials are also dealing with a possible rise in prejudice toward Asians and Asian-Americans.
Cornell University officials first expressed concerns last month in a statement telling the college community to "not make assumptions about others' perceived symptoms or any characteristics of identity" when students were tested for COVID-19 and isolated before the results came back negative.
While no positive cases were confirmed at the time at Cornell, two members of the Ithaca College community have since tested positive in the past week.
Ithaca Mayor Svante Myrick said Wednesday he heard two direct accounts of acts of verbal harassment directed at an Asian person and an Asian-American. He also said a third party told him of another incident in which someone verbally assaulted another individual.
Myrick said these type of incidents will be investigated by the City of Ithaca if they are reported, but Ithaca Police Chief Dennis Nayor said not all of the previous incidents were reported.
In the City of Ithaca, 17.6% of the population identifies as Asian, according to 2017 U.S. Census data. Of the 5,406, 9% are Chinese. Much of the large Asian population is tied to the local colleges.
The coronavirus pandemic traces back to Wuhan, China, where it was discovered late last year. Its origin has led President Donald Trump to label the pathogen the "Chinese virus" and the disease the "Wuhan flu," which has led to strong criticism because experts say this rhetoric empowers racism.
"I sent the message (Tuesday) because we have to nip it in the bud," said Myrick, who said harassment directed toward those of Asian descent increased from zero to at least three this week.
"(Wednesday), Trump tweeted 'Chinese coronavirus.' He's attempting to rebrand it by calling it the Chinese virus even though there's no reason to do so.
"He's trying to deflect blame. He thinks if we attach an ethnicity to the virus, (his response to COVID-19) will not change the election. This is an irresponsible, horrible form of politics that's never been seen before. Labeling an entire ethnicity with a disease has led to the biggest atrocities and genocides."
Myrick shared a message on Facebook condemning the acts of prejudice and Trump's rhetoric.
The mayor has advised residents to share messages stating the Ithaca community will not tolerate hate. He suggested residents can do so with signs and on social media.
"Make your own message that racism and hate in this moment is the very last thing we need, and it won't be allowed or tolerated in the City of Ithaca," Myrick said in the video.
Tompkins County Legislator Chair Leslyn McBean-Clairborne shared similar sentiments at Tuesday's legislature meeting.
Clairborne said, "Please be sensitive. Stop that behavior, and if you see it ... interrupt it and provide support to those being harassed."
Racism toward Asian people has increased throughout the country recently, with metro areas such as Dallas-Fort Worth and Seattle reporting more incidents.
Ithaca police aware of harassment
During the incidents in Ithaca, the individuals were followed, and comments about coronavirus and COVID-19 were directed toward them.
"This is not just occurring in different places around the country," Nayor said by phone. "It is occurring locally as well. ... we won't tolerate that.
"These are challenging times for everyone, and we need to band together, not harass or discriminate anyone of any culture in regards to what is happening now."
Naylor also sent an email to the city police department, telling his staff to "be cognizant of any biased-based crimes which may occur as a result of what is going on internationally."
"As we are navigating the COVID-19, we may be likely to see more incidents like this perpetrated against members of our Asian community, so please be alert to that and let's do all we can to address any concerns that are brought forward," the email said.
The Tompkins County Sheriff's Office has not reported any complaints, but Sheriff Derek Osborne is aware of the recent incidents in the city.
"I think it's during times like these that we need to pull together as a community in support of one another rather than allow fear to drive a wedge between us," he said.
How some are discriminating against Asians
Robert Ji-Song Ku, of the Department of Asian and Asian American Studies at Binghamton University, emphasized the harm that can come when ethnic groups are blamed irrationally or used as a scapegoat during the confusing and difficult times.
Ji-Song Ku said hostile behaviors toward these populations are increasing and include: Minor microaggressions.
Leering looks.
Outright racist behavior such as calling the virus "Chinese virus" or "Wuhan virus."
He said the restaurant industry has experienced an overall downturn in business regardless of the type of food served, and it appears that Chinese restaurants suffered disproportionately.
"This is true for not only major Asian enclaves, such as Chinatowns in New York City and San Francisco, but also in areas with smaller Asian-American populations, such as the Southern Tier of New York," Ji-Song Ku said.
Myrick expressed faith that residents will unite and stomp out hate.
"Yes, it will be more necessary," he said. "It will be a confusing time. Entire professions will disappear. We will have to build a new social safety net and a new way to relate to each other."