A Chinese granny shows us that enough is enough: Xie Xiaozhen's courage in fighting off a racist attacker has inspired people the world over

Tam, L.

Others

2021-03-29

I have to admit that I love the story of "David and Goliath" being played out in real life. Everyone loves a good underdog story, and perhaps now more than ever, we need stories such as these to uplift us.
Fighting racial inequality and combating racial violence has been an unrelenting battle around the world, especially in the US. In recent years, we have witnessed how race-related issues have divided the world. And in some extreme cases – such as the Black Lives Matter movement of 2020 – they have caused nations to implode into social and political upheaval.
There is no doubt that racism exists in every corner of the globe. And unfortunately, Covid-19 has fanned the flames of prejudice against Asian-Americans. This hatred was spurred by then US President Donald Trump, who repeatedly used flippant terms such as "Chinese virus" and "kung flu" when discussing the coronavirus pandemic.
Even after the end of his presidency, the effects of his anti-Asian rhetoric are being felt in overseas Asian communities.
But every now and then, when we hear stories of victims fighting back or bringing the perpetrators down, we feel a sense of satisfaction, knowing that the culprits are getting their comeuppance.
The latest heroine in the battle against Asian hate crime is a 76-year-old Chinese grandmother Xie Xiaozhen. She is a Chinese immigrant and long-time San Francisco resident.
Last week, Xie defended herself against her assailant, a burly white man in his 30s, with a wooden stick and sent him to hospital on a stretcher. The attack by the man was unprovoked, and he punched Xie in the face while she was out for a walk.
It was no mean feat for a frail and elderly woman to be able to summon such power in the face of life-threatening danger. And in the aftermath of the attack, the scene of Xie sobbing and asking her attacker, "Why did you hit me?" in Toisanese – a dialect related to Cantonese – is being played out to millions worldwide.
There is no rational reason that can explain his actions, and there is no point dressing it up. He is a racist, a bigot and a criminal who must be brought to justice.
Chinese diasporas have been a part of world history for hundreds of years, with records showing Chinese merchants settling in Cambodia during the 13th century.
For generations, we have been building new lives, setting up homes, and bringing up children in foreign lands as well as contributing to our communities and new home countries. All of these stories are told with blood, sweat and tears; but thankfully some of these stories come with a happy ending.
This year, we are bearing witness to another wave of mass emigration as many Hong Kong-Chinese residents are flocking to Britain to settle and eventually gain citizenship. But this is another chapter in Chinese history that will undoubtedly be filled with hardship and prejudice.
Some Chinese people there say they have been treated like vermin because of the Covid-19 pandemic.
In Scotland, for example, police said 474 hate crimes against Chinese and Asian and Southeast Asian people were reported between January and December last year, compared to 316 the year before. This is an increase of about 50 per cent.
There are no set rules or strategies to combat or stop racism because of how it manifests itself. Racism isn't always manifested through physical violence, sometimes it rears its ugly head in more covert forms such as systemic racism. But whatever the case, it has no place in our society.
One thing we can do is to control the narrative. No longer should we tolerate those who criticise us for being too "sensitive" or tell us that it's not about race. There are those who have been privileged enough not to experience racism first-hand, but this isn't the case for everyone.
In Xie's case, the officers who were called to the scene of her attack claimed that they needed time to determine whether the incident was racially motivated. But through the eyes of victims like Xie, we know the truth.
Victims of race hate crime should never give up their power to speak the truth, fight for the truth, and preserve the truth of their story.
It is encouraging to know that more people are standing up against racial violence, and the silent majority is saying "enough is enough". Even the vulnerable like Xie are fighting back, giving us hope that the struggle against racism is picking up momentum.
No doubt Xie's mettle has inspired a lot of people the world over, and not just the global Asian community. She has shown us that true strength is not merely about who has the biggest muscles or the loudest voice; it lies within us and she has shown us that we can summon it when we need it the most.
Luisa Tam is a Post correspondent who also hosts Cantonese-language video tutorials that are now part of Cathay Pacific's in-flight entertainment programme.
