Four towns decry anti-Asian attacks: Hate crimes have soared in New York

Chao, M.

Others

2021-03-14

Amid a recent spate of crimes aimed at Asian Americans, four Bergen County boroughs have passed resolutions
decrying the violence and declaring racism "a public health crisis."
Leonia, Fort Lee, Dumont and Harrington Park each adopted the identical statements.
They promised to support measures at the municipal and state level to "advance efforts to dismantle systemic
racism," without discussing specific policies.
The towns called on local, county and state officials to "denounce racism, xenophobia and intolerance in all
forms and stand with us in solidarity with the Asian and Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders communities."
Hate crimes motivated by anti-Asian sentiment have soared in New York City. There were 27 racially motivated
crimes against people of Asian descent reported last year, compared to one in 2019, according to the NYPD.
Across the country in 2020, there were almost 3,000 reports of anti-Asian discrimination between March 19 and
Dec. 31, according to the Stop AAPI Hate, which tracks incidents against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.

The problem has been highlighted by a string of recent assaults, including a January attack that killed 84-year-
old Vicha Ratanapakdee in San Francisco in January. In February, a group of Korean American teens from North

Jersey faced a verbal assault in New York's Times Square. Leonia High School sophomore Yena Choe said a
middle-aged woman glared at the group of face-masked youths and told them, "Get away from me!" while waving her hands.
In Wyckoff, meanwhile, a Chinese restaurant was vandalized last June with the words "coronavirus" and "go
home" spray-painted on the windows and sidewalk.
During his first prime-time address to the nation Thursday, President Joe Biden denounced violent attacks
against Asian Americans during the coronavirus pandemic as un-American.
Discussing how the pandemic had served to divide and antagonize Americans on a range of issues, Biden called
out "vicious hate crimes against Asian Americans who've been attacked, harassed, blamed and scapegoated."
"At this very moment, so many of them, our fellow Americans, are on the front lines of this pandemic trying to
save lives," Biden said.
"And still, still they are forced to live in fear for their lives just walking down streets in America. It's wrong, it's
un-American and it must stop."
In Bergen County, where 17% of people identify as Asian, according to the 2019 Census, the four boroughs
spoke out with resolutions warning not to scapegoat local residents just because the virus originated in China.
The text of the resolutions is as follows:
Condemn and denounce racism, xenophobia and intolerance in all forms.
Call on public officials in other municipalities and at the state level to condemn and denounce racism,
xenophobia and intolerance in all forms and stand with us in solidarity with the Asian and Asian Americans and
Pacific Islanders communities.
Continues to promote and advocate for equality and equity through all policies approved by the mayor and
council.
Recognize the dedication of Asian and Asian-American frontline medical workers, teachers, police and fire
officers and essential workers.
Continue to advocate locally and through the New Jersey State League of Municipalities, New Jersey Conference
of Mayors and all other appropriate associations for relevant policies that improve health in communities of
color.
Support local, state, regional, and federal initiatives that advance efforts to dismantle systemic racism.
Further work to solidify alliances and partnerships with other organizations that are confronting racism and
encourage other local, state, regional and national entities to recognize racism as a public health crisis.
Support community efforts to amplify community efforts to be anti-racist and to combat discrimination and
xenophobia while engaging actively and authentically with communities of color wherever they live.
Promote and support policies and resources that prioritize the health of all people, such as bystander
intervention programs.
Encourage racial equity training among all community partners, vendors and contractors.
Call upon Bergen County Executive Tedesco and the Bergen County Board of Chosen Freeholders to declare
racism as a public health crisis and to enact equity in all policies in the County of Bergen.
Call upon Governor Murphy, State Senate President Sweeney, and State Assembly Speaker Coughlin to also declare racism as a public health crisis and to enact equity in all policies of the state of New Jersey.