Racial Divide: The Developing stigma of Black vs Asian

Speid, A.

Others

2021-03-25

Given the recent attacks that have occurred against the Asian American Community, including the mass shooting of several Asian descendants in Atlanta, one cannot help but notice an underlying narrative that has invoked divide with two marginalized groups to create a situation that works in favor of white supremacy.
One elderly woman was burned alive in Brooklyn, New York after being attacked without warning. In January of this year, an 84-year-old was knocked down and killed by assailants who were depicted as young Black men. What this does is create the perfect storm of Asian/African American divide and giving law enforcement the excuse to not be able to do anything about it, and to also continue to paint the narrative of black disparity.
Since the anti-racism protest in 2020, more and more attacks against other races have surged across the country, including attacks in Chinatown and many Asian-American communities. As reported by the Stop AAPI Hate coalition (Asian American and Pacific Islanders), there has been an uptick in Anti-Asian discrimination and attacks. One could point towards the rise of COVID-19 and the narrative of the virus' origin from China. This leads to ignorance and therefore thoughtless attacks against all Asian-Americans-some who have never even been to China, nor are from China at all.
In the IPSOS polls in the Center for Public Integrity back in 2020, 56% of Americans believed COVID was a natural disaster, while the 44/45% blame China, and 9% in that 44% blame the Chinese Government.
Today, those numbers have altered to 57% believing COVID is a natural disaster, while 43% point towards specific people and organizations. Among those specifics, 54% believe China (including labs, scientist, and the government) are responsible.
Obviously, the virus and former President Donald Trump stirring the pot have created much of the incentive for these attacks, but such anti-Asian sentiments have existed since the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, and the 1942 Japanese American internment camps issued by President Franklin Roosevelt.
However, what does all this have to do with the African American Community?
