#StopAsianHate: Township residents speak out about anti-Asian racism

Lassonde, M.

Others

2021-03-30

Since the start of the pandemic, people of Asian descent have been spat on, verbally harassed, assaulted, and accused of bringing COVID-19 to Canada.
These incidents are anchored in a damaging and racist rhetoric against the Asian community and have been fuelled by comments declaring COVID-19 the "Chinese virus" from politicians, including former U.S. President Donald Trump.
But these racist incidents are far from being an American issue. According to Project 1907, Canada has a higher number of reported anti-Asian hate crime incidents per Asian Capita compared to the U.S.
"I completely isolated myself because I was scared of what could happen to me if I left my house," admitted Enola St-Amant, who was adopted by a Quebecois family at 13 months old.
St-Amant is one of many Asian-Canadians who have been verbally assaulted and discriminated against since the rise of cases started in Wuhan. She recalls feeling this looming disdain against the Asian community in February, 2020 when people would actively avoid her and her Asian friends in the streets or in public transit.
Perhaps the most traumatizing event, however, was when an individual physically blocked her from entering a Granby grocery store out of fear she would infect shoppers.
"They just assumed I had COVID because I was Asian," said St-Amant.
A similar fear also manifested itself in another shopper who actively prevented her from touching the products inside the grocery store. A few weeks later, while talking to an Asian clerk, St-Amant was accosted by a woman who told her she was the reason people needed to wear masks.
"It got to a point where I stopped going to the grocery store," admitted St-Amant. "It was just so frustrating because every time I would leave the house, something would happen."
This is a sentiment many Asian-Canadians and Asian immigrants have come to know in the past months and is validated by the growing number of anti-Asian crimes in Canada.
A report from the Chinese Canadian National Council (CCNC) claimed there had been 1,150 instances of anti-Asian racism between March 10, 2020, and Feb. 28, 2021, most of which were experienced by young adults between the ages of 19 to 35, St-Amant's age bracket.
"Racism against Asian people has always been very silent because people don't realize they are being racist," said St-Amant. "People often assume it is okay to be rude because we won't fight back."
Perhaps the most notable act of anti-Asian hate crimes was the recent Atlanta Spa Shootings, which sparked a variety of #StopAsianHate rallies across North America, including last week's protest in Montreal.
For St-Amant, however, these protests began a little too late and have come and gone far too quietly.
"The protest was barely covered," said St-Amant. "My friends didn't even know it had happened."
Ri Ju, who moved to Canada from South Korea four years ago, echoed this sentiment when speaking with The Record. To her, the lack of reporting surrounding anti-Asian racism is a saddening realization that discrimination against Asian people is almost invalidated because of white people's appreciation for Asian food, culture, and art.
Ju added she is particularly disappointed in how Western society actively consumes Korean music and television shows, such as K-Drama or Anime, but often turns a blind eye to racism.
"Asian culture is very trendy right now," said Ju. "But often, they don't expand their interest to include protecting Asian people and Asian rights."
While Ju said she did not personally experience instances of discrimination because of her Korean nationality, she confessed she experienced a similar fear of leaving her home when she began to hear of anti-Asian attacks in Montreal, such as the attack on Koreans in the Plateau region.
Racism does not stop at verbal or physical attacks. It also encompasses microaggressions, such as asking "where are you really from," to an Asian-Canadian citizen. Ju added she felt it was particularly insulting for her Asian heritage to be boiled down to being either Chinese or Japanese and she considers these comments "ignorant of other Asian countries."
"The Asian community is still very small in [the Townships], so it is normal for people to not be very informed when it comes to Asian values and rights," said Ju. "But they need to be made aware of the racism we face."
While it is true that the Asian community in the Townships is considerably smaller than in Montreal, both St-Amant and Ju stress the importance of educating yourself on damaging prejudices. One of which, according to St-Amant is the hypersexualization of Asian women.
"My ex-boyfriend would often compare me to a sex worker and his friends would comment on my body because I was Asian," explained St-Amant. "Why should I be even more sexualized than I already am?" According to Ju, while protests allow for more media coverage and to raise awareness to anti-Asian racism, she believes the Quebec political system needs fixing from the inside-out. This could be as simple as actively seeking out Asian voices when it comes to decision-making and encouraging generations of young Asian-Canadians to pursue political careers.
"I have noticed the Asian community is often forgotten whenever there are anti-racism seminars," said Ju. "I hope this [movement] will push local organizations and the media to elevate Asian voices."
