Residents react to anti-Asian crime: Three perceptions after Atlanta-area shootings

Guan, N.

Others

2021-03-21

"I love downtown. It's a beautiful place to walk around," said Kay Kim, a longtime resident of Savannah, "but now I'm scared to go."
In all 38 years of living in Savannah, Georgia, Kim, a Korean American, has not felt this kind of hypervigilance until now. With the rise of Anti-Asian violence across the U.S. and, most recently, the shooting deaths of eight people in the Atlanta area, six of whom were Asian women, she says she and others can't be too cautious.
"Even in Savannah you never know," said Kim. After hearing of the shooting incident Kim texted her children, "be careful wherever you go, it's a scary world now."
But hate and discrimination have always lurked in the shadows and, throughout specific moments in history, bubbled up to the surface. Lawmakers in the past week have echoed the same sentiment, reminding people that this is nothing new.
"It's senseless," said Kim -- a word she falls back on repeatedly.
For many in the Asian community, making sense of this violence and the motives behind each incident feels futile. The rise in violence against Asians has generally been attributed to racist rhetoric surrounding the pandemic, but not all crimes have been labeled as hate crimes.
That includes the shooting deaths in Atlanta by the suspect Robert Aaron Long, a 21-year-old white man who told police his sex addiction compelled him to attack two spas that he frequented. Police have not yet determined that Long "specifically targeted" his victims, but experts say it is hard to separate the crime from race.
Authorities say the suspect opened fire at Young's Asian Massage in Acworth, Georgia on Tuesday evening, killing four people and injuring a fifth, before driving 30 miles into Atlanta and killing four more people at two businesses, Gold Spa and Aromatherapy Spa. Long was arrested about 150 miles south of Atlanta. Police said he was heading to Florida and intended to carry out more shootings at spas there.
One thing is certain: Many Asian Americans are left with a feeling of vulnerability, a feeling that increases each time someone of Asian descent is assaulted on the streets or killed.
Each story is a harbinger of what could come.
Kim, who attends a local Asian church in Savannah, says her whole congregation is scared. In conversation, she oscillates between feeling anxiety about the recent violent events, but also faith that the world is still beautiful.
"It doesn't have to be this way," she says. "It's a beautiful America, a blessed country. We shouldn't ruin it with these kinds of acts."
\ There's a Clash
"You do know what it's like to be a misfit," says an Asian American woman and Savannah business owner whose concern for her safety is so great that she did not want to be identified for this story.
She was born in and grew up in the U.S. and has always recognized a disconnect between her ethnic identity and her American one. She recalls moments from childhood when no one would want to sit next to her or the other Asian kids on the school bus.
"It happened every day," she reminisces, "And you hear that all the time: 'You don't belong. You're from another country.'"
It's been decades since that time in her life and she now boasts of a multicultural family full of love and chatter. Between her family and friends, there's a representative from every country, she jokes. "It would always be just like, the world was in the living room," she says.
But even so, there are moments when she feels hostility from this world again.
She rattles off all the broadcast news channels she watches. She remembers seeing the coverage on Vicha Ratanapakdee in late January, a Thai man who was shoved to the ground in San Francisco and later died from his injuries.
"It's kind of a little bit of that all over again," she says, "there's a clash within myself and I see the clash outside in the world now."
\ Endless Patience
An Nguyen, a retired respiratory therapist and Vietnam War veteran, settled in Savannah in the mid 70s. He now runs the Chùa Cát Tuong Temple in Garden City, which sits on acres of green space. It's a stark difference from their two-bedroom cottage 20 years ago and Nguyen is proud of how far he has come.
As Nguyen lists off decades of accomplishments, it's clear he's motivated by wearing several hats in the community, working with church leaders in Garden City and mobilizing his neighbors to fill out the 2020 census. He then starts on another list of all the places he's lived and visited: San Antonio, Dallas, Washington D.C., San Francisco. But when asked why he ended up in Savannah, Nguyen says it's because it reminds him of his distant home.
"The weather is almost like Vietnam," he says. "The river, the water, the ocean."
But most of all, Nguyen says it's because of the people.
"When I came here, I don't have anything after the war. And they helped me...hold my hand, guide me on what to do," he said.
Nguyen believes he has more friends than enemies. In the midst of the country's current strife, he urges unity.
"We are in the United States of America," he said. "We need to live together, work together." It's why he and so many other immigrants come to this country in the first place, he said. That same hope, even in the face of violent racism, holds together their vision of what this country should be, but isn't.
"Every day I think I make people smile," says Nguyen.
When people accuse him of bringing COVID-19 to America, he says he corrects them with a smile too. "I'm Vietnamese. My life's work was working in healthcare. When people are dying, I'm the one who comes to rescue them," he says.
His endless patience is palpable.
A string of violent attacks on Asian elders across the country has littered the news for months. But nothing can make Nguyen doubt who he is or make him doubt that he belongs.
