Asian-Americans leaving US amid rising hate crimes: Pandemic and violent racism cause Americans of Vietnamese heritage to reconsider land of refuge

Sen Nguyen, S. N.,THANH HUONG. 

Others

2021-03-31

Six years ago, Christina Bui, who was born in the US state of Virginia to a family of Vietnamese immigrants, accepted a job in Ho Chi Minh City. Her mother was appalled.
"My dad was 'whatever' [about it] but my mom was furious, giving me the whole 'I came to America to give you a better life!' speech," the 28-year-old recalled about her move to the city also known as Saigon.
But amid recent incidents of violence against Asians, the Trump administration's mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic and the violent mob attack on Capitol Hill in January, Bui is among the Vietnamese-Americans who are mulling over their feelings about the country that once offered their families refuge from war and poverty.
The United States has long been seen by migrants as a land of better opportunities, including the 123,000 Vietnamese who fled Saigon in the years after it fell to North Vietnamese troops in 1975. Five years later, the Refugee Act resulted in over 1.1 million Southeast Asian refugees, including those from Laos and Cambodia, resettling in the US.
But for Bui, whose work at a non-profit foundation focuses on anti-human trafficking efforts, Vietnam's proactive approach to the coronavirus is one reason for it being a safer place to call home. Vietnam has had 2,500 cases and 35 deaths among its 97 million population compared to America's 30.2 million cases and nearly 549,000 deaths among its 330 million population.
"It's just weird to me that I feel safer here in the country that my parents fled, than I probably would back home in the US, because of the pandemic, and also because I don't have to think about blending in or the colour of my skin and therefore I'm not treated outrageously different," Bui said.
Jenni Trang Le, a Vietnamese-American whose parents fled Saigon by plane, said she felt a sense of "survival guilt" for living in Ho Chi Minh City and not being part of the trauma of the pandemic and rising anti-Asian discrimination her family and friends were experiencing in the US.
"When I try to explain [anti-Asian racism] to Vietnamese people, they can understand it intellectually, not emotionally, because they have not experienced it," said the head producer at a regional entertainment firm.
Hate crimes against Asians have soared over the past year. While rights advocates said this stemmed from a long history of discrimination, recent incidents have been fuelled by Asian-Americans being linked to Covid-19, which was first identified in Wuhan, Hubei province.
Yen Le Espiritu, a professor of ethnic studies at the University of California San Diego, said Asian-Americans had been "racialised in the US as the perpetual foreigner and as the model minority".
Asian-Americans felt that no matter how assimilated they were, they would always be perceived as "tangential to US history, and as foreign, not American".
Asians were also seen as a model minority – a stereotype portraying them as intelligent, hardworking and prosperous – that pitted them against African-Americans protesting against racial injustice and made them "invisible in discussions on race/racism" compared to the black community, Espiritu said. But Asian-Americans were also especially vulnerable to both verbal and physical racial attacks from both whites and from other communities of colour, she added.