For Jewish Asian-Americans, a new wave of hate arrives from two fronts

Cohen, H.

Others

2021-03-29

NEW YORK – Jewish Asian-Americans have been left shaken by the latest wave of hate crimes against both of their heritages. 

The United States is in the midst of a shattering spike in hate crimes against Asian-Americans, with nearly 3,800 incidents of hate reported to the organization Stop AAPI (Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders) Hate in the past year. The reported violence and discrimination against Asian Americans increased by 1,900% since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, which sparked a slew of offensive anti-Asian slogans, such as 'China Virus' and 'Kung Flu' because of its origins in the Wuhan province. 

The tragic shooting of eight people, including six Asian women, by a white man in Atlanta on March 16 brought new national attention to the gravity of this moment. As Jewish groups rally in support of Asian Americans following the string of murders, the crimes coincide with a surge of antisemitism during the pandemic, with Jews in some cases blamed by conspiracy theorists for the spread of disease. 

The waves of harassment against both minority groups have left Jewish Asians feeling especially vulnerable. Zoe Kress, a 27-year-old occupational therapy student who was born in China and adopted as an infant by a Jewish family in New Jersey, expressed 'grief, anger, sadness and hopelessness' that Asian American Jews like herself are facing unprecedented discrimination. Growing up attending Jewish day schools and summer camps, Kress said she’s always been vigilant about antisemitism, but before this year she didn’t worry much about Asian racism. 

'We’ve sadly become accustomed to hearing about attacks on Jews. It’s scary that now I also have to be concerned about another part of my identity, too,' Kress told The Jerusalem Post. 'It’s something I never thought I’d have to worry about. But now it is and I think it actually worries me even more because I don’t look like a typical Jew, it’s harder to recognize. But I can always be identified as Asian,' she continued. 


YOSHI SILVERSTEIN, founder of Mitsui Collective, a Jewish nature and wellness organization, said the Atlanta massacre brought back painful memories of The Tree of Life synagogue shooting in Pittsburgh. 

'The aftermath felt exactly the same for me. Both brought feelings of how personal it feels to have others attack a part of your identity. It felt vulnerable and visceral,' he recalled. 'Both brought isolation and loneliness.' 

Silverstein’s father is an Eastern European Jew and his mother is Chinese-American. He calls himself a 'Chinese-Ashkenazi American Jew.' Silverstein said that recent attacks on both of his identities have made him especially conscious to pass cultural traditions down to his three-year-old daughter. He does so by fusing the two heritages together, like cooking scallion latkes for Hanukkah. Last month, when the Lunar New Year fell on a Friday night, the family hosted a Chinese-themed Shabbat dinner. 

'Despite the similarities between the two shootings,' Silverstein continued, 'it feels like there is a bigger gap following the Atlanta attacks, because it wasn’t something that impacted all Jews. It impacted Asian folks, and of course the overlap of Asian Jews. Early on, it was like: Are any non-Asian Jews paying attention? It brought me a different feeling of isolation.' 

But Silverstein, 37, also found comfort in the support he has received from the Jewish community since the Atlanta massacre. 

'The day after, I saw other Asians, most of whom were not Jewish, expressing how they were feeling. That hit home for me. Then I was tagged in a solidarity post from a Black-Jewish liberation collective, which brought a lot of emotions for me. I needed that,' he recalled. 'A lot of folks from different Jewish corners have reached out to me, but I think I may be unique in that because I’ve worked in the Jewish world for a long time and have a lot of personal contacts.' 

Immediately following the Atlanta massage parlor murders, dozens of Jewish groups released statements condemning the rising levels of anti-Asian violence. Police in Georgia say the gunman may have been motivated by hatred of women and not anti-Asian bigotry, but regardless, the attack is likely to exacerbate the community’s anxiety.


'AS HATE crimes targeting Asian Americans continue to rise, this Jew won’t be silent,' said David Harris, CEO of the American Jewish Committee, on Twitter. 'As Asian Americans are attacked and, yes, killed, this Jew won’t be silent. As the larger fabric of our diverse society is threatened, this Jew won’t be silent.'

The progressive Jewish group Bend the Arc issued a similar statement of solidarity. 

'This is a national crisis fomented by politicians who have chosen to point fingers and spread fear instead of taking action to keep everyone safe from the pandemic,' the group said. 'Their words and rhetoric are once again echoing in gunshots, as they have in Pittsburgh, El Paso, and most recently in the halls of the Capitol building, and they must be held accountable. As Jews, we know that freedom and safety for any of us depends on the freedom and safety of all of us.'

'Institutions have put out brilliant statements that weave Torah with such acute understanding of the politics of the times,' said Rabbi Mira Rivera, a Filipino-American associate rabbi at Romemu, a popular Jewish Renewal congregation on Manhattan’s Upper West Side.

The statements are not enough, Rivera told the Post. 

'Did any of those people actually reach out and call somebody? How many congregations actually know their non-white Jews?

'This is my face-to-face plea,' she continued. 'I hope and pray that Jewish organizations will actually try and spend more time and create relationships with Asian Jews. It has to take people dying, oftentimes, for Jewish professionals to reach out to non-Jews. It has to take an intersectionality of Jewishness for us to take a cause as ours. It puts tremendous pressure on us Asian Jews that the only time we’re reached out to is when people are dying. We’re remembered only when there’s a crisis that has disturbed the waters. If even after COVID, people are still wondering if we are all interconnected, I’m just really surprised.' 

Rivera said her pain is palpable. 

'I’m shaking inside as I’m speaking. The women killed in Atlanta could be our sisters. I am tired of pulling out Torah to justify a response.' 