Vigil remembers Atlanta spa shooting victims Event at University of Central Florida denounces hate

Chen, A.

Others

2021-03-24

Asian Americans have been fighting two viruses during the pandemic: COVID-19 and hate.
That was the message Tuesday night at a vigil at the University of Central Florida honoring the eight victims, including six Asians, who were shot to death by a gunman last week at Atlanta-area spas.
"Hate is a virus. Hate can spread just as quickly as Covid-19 if we let it," said Mimi Chan of the Wah Lum Kung Fu and Tai Chi Temple in Orlando.
An estimated 150 to 200 people gathered at the event thatincluded a moment of silence, live music, prayer, speakers, a lantern ceremony and an open forum.
Together Chan urged that legislation condemning hate crimes against Asian Americans to be passed. Law enforcement agencies should also take an active role in hate crimes as well as hate incidents, which can be instances of harassment or verbal abuse, she said.
The livestreamed event brought together Asian Americans on campus and local community groups. Participants sat on the grass around the Reflection Pond facing Millican Hall.
"Hate in any form will not be tolerated on our UCF campuses, because our commitment to valuing excellence that comes from our differences is stronger than hate," said Dr. Edwanna Andrews of UCF Student Development and Enrollment Services.
Pastor Danny Chen, director of the campus InterVarsity Christian Fellowship, described Asian Americans as historically voiceless, politically powerless, and shown last week to be disposable.
He shared a painful family secret that his grandmother,who out of desperation as a single mother, worked in the sex indus
try at a massage parlor to put food on the table.
"I think we're so quick to attach some kind of social stigma against women in this industry," he said. "It's much easier for us to see them as morally loose, as sexually promiscuous rather than to actually consider the reality that these are mothers and sisters and daughters who are gripped by the bondage of poverty and sexism and misogyny subjected to the exploitation of a broken humanity. We often forget that they too were created with dignity whose bodies reflected the very image of God."
Imam Abdullah Saqib of the Islamic Center of Orlando and President of the Muslim student association at UCF said he stands with "our brothers and sisters from the Asian community."
"We also stand with anyone who is targeted, persecuted, abused, discriminated against or hurt because of their race, ethnicity or religion," he said.
"I say terrorism and violence has no religion," said Saqib. "The only thing that could be associated with it is hatred and ignorance."
Some of the students attending the event said they were shaken by the Atlanta spa shooting.
Janine Do, a third-year marketing major at UCF, she said her mom owns a nail salon in the Tampa area. Since the Atlanta homicides, she locks the door between customers. Her mother has also put a sign up at the store stating she is not Chinese, but Vietnamese.
"It didn't really hit me until now," said Do, tearing up.
Another student said since the pandemic started, she avoids going to the grocery store alone. The Atlanta shootings have made her feel frustrated, angry and numb.
"It's been a difficult ride," said Juli Meyer, a psychology major at Valencia College who identifies as Thai American.
"My hope for today is to be a supporter, and to be in a safe space, and be welcomed," she said, "Hopefully this event will bring more awareness to hate crimes in the Asian community."
