Singaporeans in the US navigate racist stereotypes

Ghosh, N.

Others

2021-03-27

NEW YORK • Singaporean film-maker Eunice Lau, who lives in New York, remembers the morning she was walking back to her hotel from work on a film project in Minneapolis some years ago.
"I remember it was about 10.30am or 11am," she tells The Straits Times. "So, broad daylight, downtown Minneapolis, walking from the federal courthouse to the hotel.
"And I got yelled at: 'Get out of my country, go back to where you came from!'
"The fact is that this harassment against Asians didn't just happen yesterday, just because of Covid-19," Ms Lau says. "I think people need to account for that, put that into context."
When it is useful or convenient, Asian Americans are the so-called "model minority", says Dr Jerrine Tan, a visiting lecturer in English at Mount Holyoke College in Massachusetts.
"Otherwise you're the yellow peril or you're the China virus," the Singaporean tells ST. "Or you're the Fu Manchu, or you're the evil spy, or you're the dragon lady or the femme fatale.
"There are all these other stereotypes that are in fact used to describe Asian people in very pejorative terms that are conveniently forgotten about when the myth of model minority is used to make sure that you don't rock the boat, in fact."
Separately, in an article in Wired, Dr Tan writes: "After 14 years in the US, I have learnt to be vigilantly hyper aware of my skin. Racism most of the time rubs more like a rash than a gash."
"I live in a conservative part of western Massachusetts. All through 2020, houses in the area brandished frightening and violent Trump paraphernalia," she adds.
"Before mask wearing became widely practised, I feared marking myself as 'foreign' by wearing one. Then I feared being 'exposed' as Asian when not wearing one. So I covered up completely.
"Under my hat, behind my sunglasses and mask, who could know who or what I was?"
As then United States President Donald Trump amped up his "China virus" rhetoric, Dr Tan and her husband decided to stop walking in the woods with their dog for fear of running into a "gun-toting Trump supporter".
"When we shared this decision with others, we always felt embarrassed, like we were overreacting," she writes.
After the March 16 Atlanta massacre, Asian social media sites were buzzing with alarm.
On a Facebook page called Singaporeans in Americas, resident Josephine Lee of Raleigh, North Carolina, muses about using a self-defence alarm she had obtained long ago in Singapore.
"Was heart-breaking... reading a 75-year-old Asian woman and an 83-year-old Asian man were attacked... near San Francisco's UN Plaza followed by six Asian women... killed in the Atlanta Spa shootings!" she writes.
One user responds: "These attacks are unprovoked and without warning."
He adds: "Got to be aware of your surroundings. It's sad."
The stereotype of an Asian American - fuelled by the misleading "model minority" trope - is that he is a member of a community that keeps its head down and does not speak up.
"Now we're seeing them coming out in the thousands to stand up for their dignity and I think that's awesome to see," Ms Lau tells ST.
She adds: "And that's what I feel - this is the moment, we've got to seize this moment to say, let's fight for our dignity, because if we don't fight, nothing's going to change.
"Nobody's going to give it to us on a silver plate. We've got to fight for it ourselves."
