Fractured politics is fuelling racial hatred in the United States: Attacks against Asian-Americans only the latest example of how partisanship at the highest levels of government can quickly spiral out of control

None

Others

2021-03-23

A wave of hate crimes against Asian-Americans follows xenophobia over the Covid-19 pandemic and the anti-Chinese rhetoric of former US president Donald Trump and other conservative leaders. It came to a head last week with the shooting of eight people in Atlanta massage parlours, including six Asian women, although the perpetrator denies a racist motive. Now a 76-year-old Chinese woman who fought back against a white assailant has done more to inspire public empathy with the plight of her community than official expressions of concern and support from as high as the White House.
Grandmother Xie Xiaozhen was standing at an intersection in San Francisco when a 39-year-old man ran up and hit her in the face. She picked up a wooden plank lying on the ground nearby and hit him in the face. A video clip of Xie, originally from Guangdong, looking shaken and crying out in Cantonese "Why did you hit me?" went viral as it was picked up by international and Chinese media. It showed Xie holding an ice bag to her bruised face while her assailant was put on a stretcher with blood dripping from his mouth.
The assault is an example of an outbreak of random attacks on older Asian-Americans in particular, leading to demonstrations in a number of cities after the shooting spree in Atlanta. Community activists attribute the discrimination and violence to political rhetoric about the pandemic because the epicentre of the initial outbreak was Wuhan, China.
President Joe Biden visited Atlanta to offer solace to Asian-Americans. He denounced the scourge of racism at times hidden "in plain sight" and called for a halt to related violence. The authorities have come under scrutiny after a sheriff's official said the suspect had had a bad day before the shooting and was "at the end of his rope", reflecting criticism that white offenders are often afforded empathy.
Biden may be saying the right things, but they should be directed mainly at supporters of the man he defeated in the last election, Trump. So far they have not been listening. Trump may not be in charge now, but it takes people like him to call out militant racist sentiment among his loyal following. In the case of resistance among his followers to Covid-19 vaccinations, Trump, to his credit, has urged them to have it, though Dr Anthony Fauci, his former medical adviser and now Biden's, has appealed to him to do more in this regard.
So long as race relations remain a visceral issue for many Trump voters among Republicans, and he mulls a political comeback, it is hard to imagine he can be persuaded to call out race hate unequivocally. Without a bipartisan consensus, it is to be hoped the forces of law and order are prepared to deal with the consequences without further inflaming feelings of prejudice and injustice.