Activist hit for race rant a rally backer

Shahrigian, S. 

Others

2021-03-23

A Brooklyn man who was taken off his local community board after he made a hateful anti-Asian rant is listed as a supporter of an upcoming rally for solidarity with Asian-Americans.
Assemblywoman Mathylde Frontus (D-Brooklyn) recently announced the event "in partnership" with locals including Ronald X. Stewart, whom the Daily News exposed for an anti-Asian Facebook tirade in March 2020 - around the same time the city began to see an increase in hate crimes amid the onset of coronavirus.
"These Chinese restaurants in our community make millions of dollars off us," he raved. "They don't hire us; don't donate to any of our events and express racism against us.
"Yes I said all this now attack me!" he taunted.
He was defending a Frontus staffer who had made xenophobic comments about the COVID outbreak, saying the assemblywoman shouldn't have to apologize for that staffer's conduct. Frontus later fired that staffer.
Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams declined to reappoint Stewart to Community Board 13 after the anti-Asian tirade surfaced. Stewart could not be reached for comment.
Frontus announced the "stop AAPI hate" rally, set for Thursday at the Wall of Remembrance at MCU Park in Coney Island, as the city reels from an ongoing spike in anti-Asian hate crimes. AAPI stands for Asian-American and Pacific Islander.
She defended her decision to include her longtime supporter Stewart among the list of partners for the event.
"I don't want to relive what happened in the past," Frontus told The News on Monday morning. "He was wrong and he apologized for it. I'm not sure if there's something else that you want me to say."
Later Monday, she said in an email that Stewart would not attend the rally, but was still "listed [as] a supporter of the rally just like dozens of other community members."
Stephanie Wong, president of the United Chinese Association of Brooklyn, slammed Frontus' decision to include Stewart in the upcoming rally. Wong said in spite of her requests to Frontus, she's never received evidence that Stewart apologized for his hateful statement. "I don't think he has any legitimacy to do this before he sends an apology to our community publicly," Wong said.