Hate incidents up against Asian Americans: State faces obstacles while collecting data as cases go underreported

Hal Conte and

Others

2021-03-09

It's been about a year since Ellen Hartman took a walk with her husband and two young daughters along the Susquehanna riverfront in
Harrisburg, trying to get some fresh air and a respite amid a brewing pandemic.
She found little peace. Hartman, the senior vice president of the Central PA Korean Association, said she was accosted during the walk
by four young men shouting at her.
"There were a group of four males who began taunting me, yelling, calling me the coronavirus, throwing their arms towards me," she
said.
Because she had her 3-year-old daughter with her, Hartman said she didn't want to react.
"You could tell these four males are very angry and in their tone profanities, and my 3 year old was waving at them. She thought, 'oh
look, they're saying hello to me,'" she said.
Hartman didn't report the incident to the police or state officials. Instead, she reported it to the Community Responders Network, a
grassroots coalition that works to reduce bias incidents in central Pennsylvania.
Her account was the third report on a list of 33 for 2020. The first report describes an unknown man in a pickup truck driving past an
Asian American Dickinson College student and yelling, blaming her for the coronavirus.
That was last March, when there were less than 50 reported cases of COVID-19 in Pennsylvania. Since then, the virus and
discrimination against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have grown in the state.
While the Community Responders Network has tallied at least 33 incidents, Chad Lassiter, the executive director of the Pennsylvania
Human Relations Commission, is reluctant to quote a figure, but recognized there has been an increase.
"We've seen an uptick throughout the state. It's challenging to gather numbers. Often times, these incidents go unreported or
underreported," he said.
For example, Hartman did not report her case to the state Human Relations Commission.
The uptick in Pennsylvania is in line with what's happening nationally:
The New York Police Department reported a 1,900% increase in reported hate crimes against Asian Americans in 2020.
Almost daily reports from the Bay Area of California show an increase in violence against Asian Americans, particularly elderly Asian
Americans.
Stop AAPI Hate, a database that has tracked racial violence during the coronavirus, received more than 2,800 reports of anti-Asian
discrimination from March through the end of December.
A rise in hate crimes against Asian Americans
Discrimination against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders continue to be reported this year.
Shortly after taking office in January, President Joe Biden signed an executive order Jan. 26, condemning racism, xenophobia and
intolerance against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.
The order also instructed the COVID-19 Health Equity Task Force to issue guidance and best practices for advancing cultural
competency, language access and sensitivity towards Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.
Biden also asked the U.S. Attorney General's Office to expand the collection of data and public reporting regarding hate incidents
against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.
On Feb. 22, Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Wolf's Advisory Commission on Asian Pacific American Affairs condemned recent attacks on Asian
Pacific Americans across the country and called for all Pennsylvanians to stand up against anti-Asian hate and racism in all forms.
"From Oakland, California to Brooklyn, New York, innocent Asian elders have been severely injured or killed in wanton acts of violence.
Here in Pennsylvania, witnesses have reported more insidious forms of hate, including threats of bodily harm to Asian American high
school students and the casual use of the term "COVID" to name Asian-influenced food," a statement from the governor's office said.
But discrimination against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders is not a new problem. It's an injustice that has been pervasive for
decades.
Reporting and documenting
Hartman said she has experienced racist hate crimes since childhood. Growing up outside Philadelphia, her family's house was tarred
with swastikas, a brick was thrown through her sister's window, and an attempt was even made to blow up her father's car.
But the perpetrators never faced justice, she said.

Now that hate crimes and racism against Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders are getting more attention, Hartman and other Asian-
Americans in Central Pennsylvania point to some recent generators of bigotry.

That includes disinformation surrounding the coronavirus and the words of former President Donald Trump, who called COVID-19 "the
China virus" and "kung flu" during his 2020 campaign stops in Pennsylvania and throughout his nationally televised speeches.
Hartman said the actions of Trump created an environment where scapegoating is permitted, accusing the former president of "reducing
us to the virus, dehumanizing us, and using phrases like 'the China virus' and the 'kung flu.'
"There is that stereotype, you know, the "kung flu," said Joseph Romanoff, who is biracial and teaches Zumba classes at the New York
Fitness Club in Lebanon and whose mother came to the U.S. from the Philippines.
"But (this has) been going on for a long time. It's not in our heads."
The difference, he said, is that now, "racist attacks are being recorded and documented on social media."
State Rep. Patty Kim, D-Dauphin County, has served the 103rd district since 2013 and is a former Harrisburg city councilwoman. She
said she has been concerned that many hateful incidents against Asian-Americans were going unreported.
"Growing up, I've had kids calling me names and pointing out I'm different. I thought that was the way of life," Kim said. "People feel
very bad and embarrassed, and just want it to go away."
"I want to encourage people of any race when you hear these kinds of comments and actions they should be reported and documented
to the Human Relations Commission and PA Attorney General," she said.
Kim said she's glad more people are taking notice of discrimination against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.
"We need a culture shift. We don't need to tolerate this," she said.
Rural racism
Although a lot of the recent coverage has concentrated on cities such as San Francisco and New York, in more rural areas, this
dynamic can often be worse.
"Moving from Philadelphia to Central PA, I've experienced more microaggressions, more bias, more hate," Hartman said, recalling
being asked to leave a party where a Confederate flag was being displayed and being shouted at with racist epithets while drinking a
milkshake at the Pennsylvania Farm Show.
As a leader at the Central PA Korean Association, Hartman said organizations like hers could help connect people that may have never
met an Asian-American person before.
"There are individuals who have gone their entire life not having a close friend or a colleague who's Asian, and all they're hearing is
about Asian-Americans being viruses, or the carriers of disease, or invaders, or taking jobs away," she said.
"In smaller, rural towns that are predominantly one race, one culture, maybe you don't have other cultures coming in....I think
there's so many opportunities in this globally networked world to break from that."
The bigotry can take on both overt and less obvious characters, particularly surrounding the coronavirus.
"You see people walk away from us in the grocery store," Kim said. "It's hard to prove, it's subtle, but I believe it's happening....I've
experienced that a couple times but don't know what they were thinking of."
Kim said that larger cities with more diversity were able to pick up on patterns of racism more quickly.
Hartman said she was the only teacher of color when teaching at high schools in Central Pennsylvania and experienced
microaggressions.
Romanoff said his mother had also been subject to racial bigotry from students at Central Pennsylvania schools when she was a
teacher, with students telling her to "go back to China" and mimicking slanted eyes.
His mother came as a chemist, but there is a false belief that Asian immigrants are taking jobs, he said.
"A lot of Filipinos feel like they have to dumb down their resumes just to get hired," he added.
Romanoff said he was harassed as a kid by people saying he would be deported if an election was won by Ross Perot, a former
business executive who mounted two third-party presidential bids on anti-free trade and nativist themes in the 1990s.
"It makes me sick," Romanoff said. "America is supposed to be a country of freedom. But we have to be honest with ourselves."
