CANADIANS MUST ‘STAND UP' IN FIGHT AGAINST ANTI-ASIAN HATE CRIMES, ADVOCATE SAYS

None

Others

2021-03-20

Amy Go says she was saddened by the shootings in Atlanta that left six Asian-American women dead, but as an Asian-Canadian woman, she wasn't surprised.
Ms. Go, the president of the Chinese Canadian National Council for Social Justice, said many Asian-Canadian women have experienced hatred or violence in their daily life.
"There's so much pain and grief," she said about her initial reaction to the attack. "At the same time, as Asian-Canadian women, none of us were surprised. There was no sense of shock. It was as if we knew this was coming ... it just happened to be in Atlanta."
The killings follow a wave of recent attacks against Asian Americans and Canadians since the novel coronavirus arrived in North America.
The national council has tracked 931 anti-Asian racist incidents during COVID-19, and Ms. Go said the numbers should highlight myths about how Canadians view themselves.
"This myth about Canada that we are multicultural, more kind, we're gentler than Americans, to me that's just a myth. As racialized Canadians, particularly racialized women, we know that the reality is quite different," she said.
Federal Trade Minister Mary Ng, who was born in Hong Kong before moving to Canada when she was 7, said she's been the victim of discrimination.
"Every time I speak out about the need for us to keep working together as Canadians to prevent more intolerance and incidents of anti-Asian hate or discrimination, I will get a whole lot of other responses that are not becoming of Canadians," she said in an interview.
She said the news of Tuesday's attack left her feeling "horrified" and she emphasized the need for Canadians to offer support to the Asian-Canadian community.
"I think the request is that Asian Canadians need all Canadians to stand alongside us, to speak out and to be vocal and to stand against anti-Asian racism and to certainly stand up for us in this fight," Ms. Ng said.
Police in major cities across Canada have recorded increases in hate crimes in the past year, although not all could identify the specific targets of the alleged crimes.
Toronto police say they have seen an increase in the number of hate-motivated occurrences, comparing 2019 with 2020 - including incidents against Asian people - but could not provide data.
Ottawa police reported an increase of 56.9 per cent in the number of hate-crime reports between 2019 and 2020, and noted Asian Canadians have seen the largest increase in hate incidents directed toward them.
Henry Yu, an associate professor in the University of British Columbia's history department, said Asians have historically been blamed for a range of societal problems in Canada.
