Area residents of Asian descent decry stereotypes

Wilson, M. 

Others

2021-03-24

Lily Hubbard remembers it like yesterday, the day two years ago when quiet fell over her 10th-grade class.
"A substitute teacher asked me if I was an exchange student," she said.
Her silent Henderson County High School classmates knew. Adopted as a baby from China in 2003, Lily grew up alongside them, shared the same childhood experiences, the same milestones, the same teenage hopes and dreams.
What they don't share, however, are the experiences faced by Asians in the United States on a daily basis. The awkward silence precipitated by the substitute teacher's question was a reminder.
By the time she got home from school that day, Lily recalled, she was stewing over the incident.
"It just reiterates I don't belong here. It's like a punch to the face," she said.
Now 18 and a high school senior, Lily is outspoken and passionate about her cultural heritage and respecting others' differences.
Recent violence and hate incidents directed toward Asians nationwide, including last week's Atlanta shootings that killed eight people, including six women, have intensified the fear felt in a community already facing derogatory rhetoric and hate speech.
Members of the Evansville area's Asian community say they are concerned about the rise in hate incidents and violence but those the Courier & Press spoke with said they haven't experienced such blatant racism here.
What they do experience, at times, is a general lack of cultural understanding and an environment in which Asian stereotypes are perpetuated.
"Most of my experiences have been lame jokes, stereotypes, derogatory words. A lot of times they are about me and sometimes Asians in general," Lily said. "I try in my calmest way, I just tell them, 'That's not right, it's really offensive, can you stop.'"
The best solution, she said, is to speak up.
"Make people accountable," she said.
That's how Beth and Joey Hubbard say they raised their daughter.
"We wanted to raise her to know that people will not always be kind. She always knows we have her back," Beth Hubbard said. "When things have happened we have asked her if she wanted us to say something or if she wanted to do something herself. We've tried to let her develop self-confidence because we have always felt that as long as she could learn to use her voice to stick up for herself that she will be all right."
Bohan Ye, an assistant professor of economics at the University of Southern Indiana, grew up in China and came to the United States to teach. She has lived in Evansville since July 2020 as the COVID-19 pandemic was raging.
She believes misinformation about the coronavirus that causes COVID-19 has helped perpetuate some of the current climate of anger directed toward the Asian community.
She said she was taken aback when one of her students, while discussing an assignment in class, said the coronavirus was created in China – even though its origins are still being investigated.
"My students are 18-19 years old. I thought, it's this kind of environment that makes them think and believe this way. It's a problem of society," she said.
Jenbien Tsai has live in Evansville since 1987, working as a civil engineer for the Indiana Department of Transportation after receiving his master's degree from the University of Louisville. He said that during his time here the local Chinese community has grown and diversified but the national climate has become less open.
"I can see the U.S. today is not the U.S. it was in the 1980s or even the 1990s. It's not as tolerant, not as welcoming to new arrivals," Tsai said. "Part of it, maybe, is economic reasons. Some think new immigrants are here to steal their jobs. Politicians fan the fire."
Tsai worries people in the local Asian community could become easy targets because of the cultural tendency to remain quiet and keep to themselves.
"Asian people normally don't want to raise hell when there is mistreatment. They just keep it to themselves," he said.
Wini Peng-Atkins recalls what it was like being an Asian in the small-town environment of Oakland City, Indiana. She moved there in 2005 to get her master's degree and then teach at Oakland City University. She taught business at the University of Evansville from 2015 until she was laid off in December 2020.
"When I first came in 2005 I was practically the only Chinese girl walking around in Oakland City," she said. "People were not mean, they were just curious."
She lives in Fort Branch, Indiana, with her husband and four sons. While she doesn't feel like she has experienced overt discrimination or hostility, Peng-Atkins said she worries for her sons in the current climate.
"Some Asians can't express themselves – some people who are from older generations, especially. We are taught to blend in and not be involved. Ever since school we are taught not to stick out. They are scared of politics," she said. "It's hard for Americans to understand that."
