'Possible hate crime' against Willamette student: University president condemns harassment of Asian people

Barreda, V.

Others

2021-03-03

Authorities are investigating a possible hate crime after a Willamette University student reported being pushed and kicked by two men in
downtown Salem while they allegedly made derogatory comments about her race.
The 21-year-old woman reported she was attacked at about noon Sunday on the corner of Capitol and Chemeketa streets while walking
to Safeway, according to Lt. Treven Upkes, a spokesperson with the Salem Police Department.
On Monday, Willamette University Vice President of Student Affairs and Dean of Students Dr. Lisa Landreman sent an email to the school
community about the incident. "Today we were horrified to learn about a racially-motivated hate crime involving physical violence and
harassment, targeted at a Willamette student."
University officials have not identified the student involved. But in the letter, Landreman commented on the rise in violence against Asian
American and Pacific Islander individuals since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic.
"It's important to acknowledge these crimes and for all members of our community to resist ill-informed, biased perspectives about
Asian people and to denounce this violence," she said.
The woman was approached by two men and pushed "while derogatory comments were yelled at the student about their race,"
Landreman wrote.
The student fell to the ground and one of the suspects allegedly kicked her. She suffered minor injuries, officials said.
The student reported the incident to the Salem Police Department and Willamette University Campus Safety.
The first man is described as 5 feet 6 inches tall with a big build, long curly blond hair and facial hair. He was wearing a gray v-neck shirt
and black snow hat.
The second man is described as 5 feet 11 inches tall with a thin build and thin brown hair. He was wearing a button-down shirt and a
snow hat.
The two men could face second-degree bias crime and harassment charges, Upkes said. Police have not made any arrests.
Some politicians, including former President Donald Trump, blamed China for the COVID-19 pandemic, said Russell Jeung, who created a
tool that tracks hate incidents against Asian American Pacific Islander communities called the Stop AAPI Hate tracker.
Since the tracker was started nearly a year ago, more than 2,583 incidents have been reported nationwide. Of those, 30 were in Oregon.
"When President Trump began and insisted on using the term 'China virus,' we saw that hate speech really led to hate violence," said
Jeung, chair of the Asian American studies department at San Francisco State University. "That sort of political rhetoric and that sort of
anti-Asian climate has continued to this day."
Anyone with more information about the incident is asked to contact the Salem Police Department at 503-588-6123.
USA Today reporter N'dea Yancey-Bragg contributed to this story.
Virginia Barreda is the breaking news and public safety reporter for the Statesman Journal. She can be reached at 503-399-6657 or at
vbarreda@statesmanjournal.com. Follow her on Twitter at @vbarreda2.
The woman was approached by two men and pushed "while derogatory comments were yelled at the student about their race," the
university said.