Eileen Gu slams racist attacks: The 17-year-old two-time world champion recalls fleeing a racially charged attack with her grandmother last year 'It really comes from bigotry and a lack of information' said Gu, an advocate for race and gender equality

McNicol, A.

Others

2021-03-19

Chinese-American freeski sensation Eileen Gu Ailing is still traumatised from her experiences of racially motivated hatred towards Asian-Americans, her most terrifying encounter occurring in the company of her more than 80-year-old Chinese immigrant grandmother.
"It breaks my heart to see something like this hit so close to home," the 17-year-old San Francisco-born Gu told the Post, responding to news of the eight people – most of Asian descent – being killed in a series of shootings in Atlanta, Georgia. "I remember at the beginning of the pandemic, I was with my grandma in a Walgreens in San Francisco and this haphazard, haggard man runs in screaming profanities about Asian people and how they were bringing the virus in and how it was super dangerous. I don't think I've ever felt fear like that in my entire life.
"This was in San Francisco – supposed to be the liberal bubble within California, which is the most liberal state, in the most liberal country in the world. This was supposed to be the safest place and I felt physically in danger. I grabbed my grandma and we ran out. I was so scared. That moment was definitely a reset because I realised how close to home it hit. That anybody can be affected just because of the way they look or their culture and heritage." Two-time Youth Olympic Games gold medallist Gu opted to compete under the Chinese flag two years ago. She has since won the country's first gold medals at the X-Games in January and two golds and a bronze at the Snowboard and Freeski World Championships in Aspen last weekend.
Born to an American father and Chinese mother, she now finds herself bridging a familiar cultural gap that has transcended the sports world. Gu called for those pushing racist, anti-Asian beliefs amid the Covid-19 pandemic to do their research. "It's an absolutely absurd idea and it really comes from bigotry and a lack of information. Killing more Asian people isn't going to kill the virus," she said. "At this point, America has by far the most cases and any American is just as likely to have it. It really comes from a sense of entitlement and misinformation – and also from people feeling threatened by these movements." Andrew McNicol
