Stabber 'doesn't care about colors' ; Hate charges dropped in brutal attack on Asian

Moynihan, E., & Chelsia Rose Marcius With,Kerry Burke.

Others

2021-03-02

An accused attacker who left an Asian man clinging to life after stabbing the stranger on a Manhattan street has a
history of violence and mental illness - but never showed any obvious signs of racial bias, his family says.
Salman Muflehi, 23, who was charged Thursday with knifing the 36-year-old victim in Chinatown, often threatened
family members when he was off his medication, and was previously charged with assaulting his brother in 2019 and
for attacking another man in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, this year.
But Muflehi - initially charged last week with two counts of a hate crime before prosecutors said there was no
evidence the stabbing was racially motivated - never displayed any biased tendencies, said his brother Montaser
Muflehi.
"He didn't care about colors, he doesn't care about that. ... If he sees someone look at him, or talking on the phone
and look at him, he thinks they're talking about him," 26-year-old Montaser told the Daily News on Sunday. "We did
everything we could for him. ... He's always in trouble."
The stabbing incident is one of the latest in a series of random attacks on Asian-Americans across the city.
Police have made 18 arrests in 28 incidents of "COVID-related" hate crimes against Asians since the start of the
pandemic, though the commanding officer of the NYPD Asian Hate Crimes Task Force acknowledged many more incidents have likely gone unreported.
Muflehi was charged Saturday with attempted murder, two counts of assault and criminal possession of a weapon,
officials said.
Yet the wife of the 36-year-old victim, who asked that her name not be used, says she still hasn't ruled out the
possibility that the stabbing was racially motivated.
"I'm torn about this being a hate crime. ... Why would he attack an Asian man in Chinatown at this time?" she told
The News, referring to the recent string of attacks. "Even a mentally ill person can commit a hate crime."
Muflehi first showed signs he was struggling with mental health issues at age 17, around the time he moved to New
York from Yemen, his family said. He later went back to Yemen, where his health seemed to improve - but began to
unravel again when he returned to New York.
"When he came back home ... maybe [for] a month or two months [he was] good. Then he flipped," said Montaser.
Muflehi was charged with assault in September 2019 for throwing a bottle that struck Montaser in the head, police
said.
"He gets mad so fast," Montaser said, recalling the incident.
Montaser said his sibling received mental health help while behind bars, and he appeared to improve while on
prescription drugs.
"He gave him some medication, the doctor, and he became a normal guy," Montaser said. "For four, five, six months
he was nice and quiet, he was really a completely different person."
But it didn't take long for Muflehi take another dark turn. On Jan. 12 he allegedly punched a 28-year-old man in the
head inside a Sunset Park deli, knocking him to the ground .
"He just came up behind me and hit me. I said 'I think you have the wrong dude, I don't even know you,' " said the
victim, who asked that his name not be used.
"He said I looked at him wrong. I was talking on the phone when I walked in and he said I was talking about him."
"I think that guy just has anger issues and is out there to hurt people," said the victim, who got a restraining order
against Muflehi. "He said I want to go get a knife to stab you."
Muflehi's mother, Safia Saeed, had heard her son make similar threats in recent years.
"He'd say, 'I want to kill you, I want to kill myself,' " Saeed, 63, told The News in Arabic.
"We tried to take him to the doctor and he said no."
"He's got no mind," she added with a sullen look as she tapped the top of her head. "He needs help."