NYPD Uses Decoys to Fight Hate Crimes --- Plainclothes officers of Asian descent will patrol public spaces to identify suspects

Chapman, B.

Others

2021-03-26

The New York Police Department will begin using undercover officers as decoys in an attempt to combat a rise in hate crimes targeting Asian-Americans in New York City, police officials said Thursday.
Plainclothes NYPD officers of Asian descent will be deployed in the city's public spaces to identify perpetrators of hate crimes and to discourage anti-Asian violence, NYPD Commissioner Dermot Shea said at a news briefing.
The department also will refer all unprovoked attacks on Asians in the city for investigation as possible hate crimes, police officials said.
A crime designated as a hate crime carries a heavier penalty than a similar act without the designation.
New York City has experienced an increase in hate crimes against Asians since the start of the pandemic, according to NYPD statistics. The fact that Covid-19 was first identified in China has led some people to blame Asian-Americans, police officials have said.
Last year, the NYPD recorded 28 hate crimes against Asians, up from three in 2019. Asians were targeted in 28 hate crimes from Jan. 1 through March 25 of this year, compared with seven such crimes in the same period last year, according to the NYPD.
While the number of hate crimes counted by the NYPD is relatively small compared with other crimes, officials believe hate crimes are underreported.
"Like much of America we've seen a disturbing spike in hate crimes targeting Asian-Americans in New York City," Mr. Shea said.
NYPD officials said the types of hate crimes committed against Asians in the city have included assaults and harassment. The officials said motives for the crimes have varied, but suspects in several instances have been people experiencing homelessness or mental-health issues.
Other U.S. cities, such as Los Angeles and Oakland, Calif., also have seen a rise in hate crimes targeting Asians, prompting people to form volunteer patrols in some communities. A series of shootings at spas in the Atlanta area on March 16 claimed the lives of eight people, six of whom were women of Asian descent.
The suspect in the attacks has been charged with eight counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault, officials said.
While according to police the suspect said he targeted the businesses "for providing an outlet for his addiction to sex," Atlanta Deputy Police Chief Charles Hampton Jr. said on March 18 that investigators were still considering all options, including the possibility the incident was a hate crime.
Mr. Shea said Thursday that the NYPD also would expand its tools to fight hate crimes with new programs, staffing adjustments and changes to existing protocols for investigations.
Two detectives will be added to the NYPD's Asian Hate Crime Task force, raising the group's number of detectives to 18, police officials said.
The Task Force was begun amid the pandemic and is staffed by detectives of Asian descent who speak a combined nine Asian languages. The group is tasked with guiding victims through the justice system, from reporting a crime to prosecution.
The task force's founding supervisor, NYPD Deputy Inspector Stewart Loo, said Thursday that he is retiring. Mr. Loo is being succeeded on the Task Force by NYPD Inspector Tommy Ng.
Mr. Ng joined the NYPD in 1997 and was the first commanding officer in the city to conduct community meetings in Chinese at the Fifth Precinct in Manhattan's Chinatown neighborhood.
