Local Asian communities worry after Atlanta killings

Chao, M. 

Others

2021-03-18

Along a busy commercial corridor across from the Fort Lee Community Center, Grace Kim reflected on how vulnerable she felt after the attacks that killed six Asian American women in Georgia on Tuesday.
Eight people in all died in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas, before police arrested a 21-year-old man accused of being the lone gunman. Although the suspect reportedly told police that race was not a motive, the deaths came after a spate of high-profile assaults on Asian Americans and after months of rhetoric blaming the community for the spread of the coronavirus.
"Since our salon is Asian, it is definitely concerning," said Kim, 25, a family owner of New Splendid Nail and Spa in Fort Lee. "We have a fear we can be targeted."
Across North Jersey, home to one of the country's biggest concentrations of Asian Americans, conversations in the communities Wednesday centered on a growing sense of being under attack – and a search for solutions.
"You always have this fear," Kim said. "You don't know if you're going to be pushed or attacked. We don't know why we're being hated. Our race and our appearance – we're born into it."
There are over 1,400 nail salons in the state owned by Korean Americans, said John Sohn, president of the Korean American Nail Salon Association of New Jersey, based in Palisades Park. The organization is keeping a watchful eye on crimes against Asian Americans, Sohn said.
During the pandemic, most salons are requiring appointments, he added, explaining that cutting down on walk-in traffic helps with safety.
Police said the Atlanta suspect, Robert Aaron Long, 21, of Woodstock, Georgia, told authorities that his actions were not racially motivated and that he frequented some of the spas where the shootings took place. Long viewed the spas as "a temptation that he wanted to eliminate," said Capt. Jay Baker, a spokesman for the sheriff's office in Cherokee County, north of Atlanta.
Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said it was too soon in the investigation to say whether the shootings were a hate crime. "We are just not there as of yet," Bryant said during a Wednesday news conference.
Nonetheless, elected officials in North Jersey said they're being proactive in preventing hate crimes against Asian Americans. In Palisades Park, where almost 60% of residents identify as Asian, Mayor Chris Chung, who is Korean American, said the borough will adopt a resolution next week addressing hate crimes. He is also planning Zoom meetings to educate the public about Asian Americans and their place in this country.
"This is not acceptable," Chung said. "We all need to get along. This is not an ethnic pandemic. It is a worldwide pandemic."
Stop AAPI Hate, a nonprofit that tracks harassment and attacks against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, recorded 3,795 incidents of anti-Asian discrimination across the U.S. from March 19, 2020, to Feb. 28, 2021, according to data from a self-reporting survey released before the Georgia shootings.
Women report hate incidents 2.3 times more than men, and Koreans are the second-largest ethnic group that reports experiencing hate, according to the new data. The South Korean Foreign Ministry said Wednesday that its diplomats in Atlanta confirmed that four of the women killed Tuesday were of Korean descent.
"This breaks my heart," said Mark Sokolich, the mayor of Fort Lee, where 42% of residents are Asian American, according to census figures. He has been meeting with local Asian American leaders and plans to produce a video to educate the public on the pandemic and the rich history of Asian Americans in the borough.
Sokolich encourages people who have experienced hate in this heated climate to call the Fort Lee police. There have been very few incidents reported during the pandemic, but that may be because people are reluctant to come forward, he said.
No matter the situation, if someone thinks they are the victim of racism, they should call the police, Sokolich said.
"Nothing is too small to report," he said.
In February, a group of Korean American teens from North Jersey faced a verbal assault in New York's Times Square. Leonia High School sophomore Yena Choe said a middle-aged woman glared at the group of face-masked youths and told them, "Get away from me!" while waving her hands.
In Wyckoff, a Chinese restaurant was vandalized last June with the words "coronavirus" and "go home" spray-painted on the windows and sidewalk.
Asian American communities "were already set on edge; we were alarmed by the rate of violence and hate directed towards us," Russell Jeung, the founder of Stop AAPI Hate, said Wednesday. "The shooting is again the worst type of violence we could go through ... it can't continue."
The FBI collects national hate crime data, but data for 2020 and 2021 has not yet been released. In 2019, 216 anti-Asian hate crimes were reported.
That number may be just a fraction of the true total, given that fewer than half of the victims of a hate crime ever report it to the police, according to data from the Bureau of Justice Statistics.
