Board of Supervisors denounces racial hate crimes

Cabral, A.

Others

2021-03-06

The Monterey County Board of Supervisors unanimously passed a resolution denouncing hate crimes and
rhetoric against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.
The move was made in response to the growing amount of hate crimes, harassment and discrimination that
Asian and Pacific Islander (API) Americans are facing, largely due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
"When we document hate, when we go ahead and shine a light on an issue like this, we remind the generations
that come after us that we didn't stand for it at the time, that we spoke up, we said something," Supervisor
Chris Lopez said. "That's critically important."
In 2020, the Stop Asian American Pacific Islander Hate Reporting Center reported over 2,800 hate incidents
against API Americans. Physical assaults make up 9% of these incidents, while potential civil rights violations,
such as workplace discrimination, made up 8% of these incidents, according to the center's website.
The resolution states: "The Monterey County Board of Supervisors, on behalf of the County and all residents
thereof, denounce hate crimes, hateful rhetoric and hateful acts against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders,
and reaffirm our commitment to ensure that API Americans feel safe and welcome, both during this COVID-19
pandemic and beyond."
Recent attacks were reported in Oakland and San Francisco, not far from Monterey County.
On Jan. 30, 84-year-old Vicha Ratanapakdee died after he was attacked while walking in San Francisco. The
incident was deemed a hate crime. On Jan. 31, three elderly Asian Americans were assaulted in Oakland's
Chinatown District.
Jeff Uchida, who is a part of the Japanese American Citizens League of Monterey Peninsula, thanked the board
for being early in taking a stand in California, noting that people must work together to prevent any more
violence and racism in Monterey County.
"We've seen some of the videos of the horrendous attacks against Asian Americans that have occurred, but we
need to have leaders step forward and truly denounce just the terribleness and how it affects our communities,"
Uchida said.
A county clerk will send copies of the resolution to Gov. Gavin Newsom, U.S. Senators Alex Padilla and Dianne
Feinstein and other elected officials.
Supervisor Luis Alejo also noted that Feb. 19 was the Day of Remembrance for Executive Order 9066, which
ordered the imprisonment of over 120,000 Japanese-Americans during World War II.
"It's important to be proactive, to not forget the lessons of the past and teach our youth these lessons and
these important messages that we stand united," he said. "I think as elected officials, we send a strong
message throughout the county that these [incidents] are unacceptable."
Supervisor Mary Adams said she has friends who were sent to the internment camps during World War II,
including one who was born there.
"That it even existed is such a scar on our entire country," Adams said. "I think it's really important for us to
have the opportunity to think about those things specifically at times like this when the possibility of similar
crimes happening again is just horrendous."
In January, President Joe Biden issued an executive order condemning the attacks and criticizing federal officials
who referred to the pandemic as the "China virus" or the "Kung flu." The order called for better data collection
about hateful incidents.