Asian heritage month good time to eradicate anti-Asian rhetoric; Racism, hate crimes on the rise amid pandemic lockdown

Baranyai, Robin

Others

2020-05-16

People can get a bit insular during a crisis. Their focus pulls inward, drawing a circle around their families and loved ones. The hardships of others tend to recede to the periphery. But this narrowed view can get ugly when the focus shifts to laying blame; too often, people who are "othered" bear the brunt.
May is Asian heritage month and, in an unpleasant irony, anti-Asian hate crimes and online rhetoric are on the rise. The confluence of these opposing events inspired Vancouver dancer and choreographer Ziyian Kwan to organize a peaceful dance action earlier this week. She chose a space outside the Chinese Cultural Centre, which in April was vandalized with racist graffiti.
Kwan told CBC's Early Edition she was verbally accosted while visiting the site. "Take your bike back where you came from," a stranger shouted. "You people made this up in Wuhan City and now you've brought it here to Canada."
There's a lot to unpack in this brief, angry tirade: the myth (dispelled by scientists) the virus was manufactured in a lab; the conflation of Chinese government actions with Asian heritage; the hideous notion of ethnicity as a disease vector. But there can be little confusion how and where the seeds of these falsehoods were planted, and how widely they're taking root.
China's government is under legitimate and mounting scrutiny for its early handling of the virus, including from Canada's ambassador to Beijing. But the country has become the favoured scapegoat for politicians looking to distract from their own critical failures, and fire up a nationalistic voting base.
The administration of U.S.
President Donald Trump is pushing an attack narrative against the findings of its own intelligence community. The words of the Vancouver assailant, which so shook Kwan, might as well have been crafted in the U.S. Oval Office, where on May 6 the U.S. president told reporters: "It could have been stopped in China. It should have been stopped at the source, and it wasn't."
Not one to miss an opportunity for hyperbole, he further asserted: "This is worse than Pearl Harbor. This is worse than the World Trade Center. There's never been an attack like this."
A Republican election strategy based on attacking China is spelled out in a 57-page memo from the National Republican Senatorial Committee, which was leaked to Politico, a U.S. political journal. Several candidates are going all-in.
One poisonous election ad for Florida Congressional candidate Casey Askar states: "China unleashed the Wuhan pandemic on the world, costing trillions, costing jobs, costing American lives."
Another, for Texas candidate Kathaleen Walsh, depicts the "Chinese virus" sailing toward the U.S. "China is a criminal enterprise masquerading as a sovereign nation," the ad alleges. "It's time to fight back."
It's important to ask what this strategy achieves, and at what cost. Racist messaging has proved an effective way to fire up Trump's base. And red herrings about the Wuhan lab also are fuel for conspiracy theorists, whose dependable circulation of misinformation plays an essential role in undermining democracy.
We've even seen this tactic floated in Canadian politics. In April, rookie MP and Conservative leadership candidate Derek Sloan turned on Canada's chief public health officer, Theresa Tam, asking: "Does she work for Canada or for China?" Tam responded, with dignity, she would not be distracted by "noise."
Unfortunately, the noise is taking a toll. A poll conducted the same week in Canada's largest cities, by the Chinese Canadian National Council for Social Justice, found roughly one in seven respondents either thought all Chinese or Asian people carried COVID-19, or they weren't sure.