Chinese man killed in Mexico

Borunda, Daniel

Others

2020-05-01


Mexican law enforcement investigating the killing of a Chinese immigrant in Chihuahua state are discarding the fatal shooting was a case of racial discrimination linked to the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Chihuahua attorney general's office has not released the man's identity but reported he had resided in Mexico for five years.
The immigrant died from a gunshot wound to the head in the Chihuahua City area last week, the attorney general's office said. There have been no arrests.
Chihuahua state has widespread drug-related violence and homicides often go unsolved. Chihuahua City has been ranked among the world's most dangerous cities.
Chinese migration to the state of Chihuahua dates back to at least the 1870s with the growth of the railroad.
A news article on the Debate news website identified the man as Wujie Liang and had claimed that he was found beaten to death.
The Chihuahua attorney general's office issued a brief statement on April 22 saying it was conducting "a serious and professional" investigation and that it had "discarded" the theory that the homicide was motivated by discrimination or possible COVID-19 infection fears.
In the U.S., Asian Americans have become targets of harassment, bigotry and attacks as the pandemic that began in China has spread, USA TODAY reported.
On March 14, three members of an Asian American family, including 2-year-old and a 6-year-old, were stabbed in a Sam's Club store in Midland, Texas, in what the FBI listed as a a hate crime. The victims survived.
"The suspect indicated that he stabbed the family because he thought the family was Chinese, and infecting people with the coronavirus," stated an FBI analysis quoted by ABC News.
Jose L. Gomez III, 19, was arrested on three counts of attempted capital murder in connection with the stabbing, the Midland Reporter-Telegram reported.
Though most Mexicans support health care workers, misinformed fears about the spread of COVID-19 infections have also resulted in harassment, threats and attacks on nurses, doctors and other medical workers in Mexico, El Universal newspaper reported. In one incident, a stranger threw bleach at a nurse in Sinaloa state.
There are 398 confirmed case of COVID-19 in Chihuahua state, including 259 in Juárez and 103 in Chihuahua City, according to a state public health briefing Wednesday morning. There have been 75 deaths across the state, including 64 in Juárez and eight in Chihuahua City.
There have been 17,799 confirmed cases and 1,732 confirmed deaths from COVID-19 in Mexico as of Wednesday evening, according to the Mexican government.