Virus - best of times, worst of times

Ellsworth, Barry

Others

2020-05-21

The coronavirus has fostered the best and the worst in Canadians.
The best are the nurses and doctors who have come out of retirement to help those already in the health-care trenches.
The best is all the retail sector workers who staff the grocery stores and pharmacies to keep the public fed and prescriptions filled. Add those working in nursing homes and others collecting garbage and recycling.
The worst is the attack on Asian Canadians, both verbal and physical.
A much larger white guy punches a small Asian in the face. Another yells at two Asian women aboard a Vancouver bus. "Go back to your country; that's where it all started."
And Canadian singer Bryan Adams goes into a Twitter rant condemning "bat-eating, wet-market animal selling, virus-making greedy bastards" who are responsible for turning the world on end by introducing the world to the pandemic.
Adams was accused of racism and apologized. I don't know why.
Many news agencies, including CBS, USA Today and closer to home, CTV News, posit the virus may have indeed been carried by a bat, spread to an intermediary animal that in turn was sold at an unsanitary so-called "wet market" in Hunan province in China. If you have looked up these markets online you can easily see the filthy conditions that could spawn this pandemic.
There is no chance the virus was created in a Chinese lab, say American, British and Australian researchers. Adams is quite likely speaking the truth and if you don't like it, too bad.
But abusive language and physical violence against Chinese Canadians - in some cases lumping all Asians together - is flat out wrong.
The overall Canadian favourability toward China has plummeted to 14 per cent, according to an Angus Reid Institute poll. And 85 per cent say the Chinese government has not been honest or transparent about the pandemic.
  In other words, it is not the Chinese, it is the Chinese government our anger should be directed toward.
The Chinese government also said the virus could not have come from a wet market because the government made wet markets illegal. Sure, more than one billion people and the communist government said it is so, then it must be so. It is the same tactic used by Trump - if you don't test for the coronavirus the number would be very few. "It's common sense," says the nonsensical buffoon.
Damned fools. (Clarification: In a column last week headlined, 'Father, son playing catch expensive these days', the first subject tackled was the King Street, Trenton, reconstruction.
I was given erroneous information by someone who was not qualified to give me the goods on the revamping. Suffice it to say residents will have a spot for garbage and recycling and will not have to put said items on the bike lane.)