Lawyer's anti-racism leadership lights the way for action

Eikenburg, Jocelyn

Others

2020-11-17

This year has witnessed an alarming spike in hate incidents against Asians around the world. The surge of
openly racist and xenophobic attacks has only exacerbated the dark reality of a cruel pandemic overshadowing
the globe.
But this tragic situation has also sparked hopeful activism, forging some new heroes in the battle against racism
and discrimination - including Xiaojiu Zhu PhD, MBE, a distinguished lawyer at the Cruickshanks firm in London,
the United Kingdom.
In the face of rising reports of discrimination against the Chinese community in the UK, including stories of
children being targeted at school, Zhu believed something needed to be done. And as a lawyer, she considered it
her duty to help people in the Chinese community protect their interests and legal rights.
Zhu came up with the idea of having an online forum for Chinese communities on responding to racism during
the pandemic. The May 27 event, organized by the UK Beijing Association, the UK Society of Chinese Lawyers,
and the Roundtable of Southern California Chinese-American Organizations, featured keynote speakers -
including Zhu - who encouraged people to take positive actions against racism and discrimination, such as
reporting incidents to authorities and taking legal recourse.
More than 8,000 people from over 10 countries attended the forum, and the online replay attracted some
10,000 views. This extraordinary reception was a testament to the significance of racism to Chinese around the world, and made Zhu realize the need for an international group to forward the cause.
Building on this momentum, Zhu founded the International Chinese Alliance Against Racism (ICAAR), uniting
over 100 lawyers, leaders of Chinese communities and media representatives from over 30 countries and
regions to inspire Chinese around the world to combat racial discrimination. Every day, members of the WeChat
group share and exchange information on the topic, to raise awareness and spur more people to safeguard their
rights. And in the future, Zhu hopes to expand and strengthen the alliance by inviting more individuals to join in
while also ramping up efforts to promote the group.
While Zhu's leadership has arrived at an urgent time, I believe the international Chinese community has long
needed a prominent lawyer to champion this cause. Racial discrimination didn't begin with the COVID-19
pandemic. And victims living in a foreign country may not always understand their rights under the law or even
feel inclined to act, such as filing a police report or a lawsuit. After all, in a March 2020 Chinese-language news
report by China News Service, Zhu noted that most overseas Chinese habitually endure discrimination in silence.
I've observed this sad reality among my Chinese friends in the US, who have shared with me far too many tales
of suffering such indignities on their own, as part of "eating bitterness" abroad. But if there had been an
international movement against racism and discrimination, supporting people to stand up for their rights, I
believe my friends' stories may have had ended with something closer to justice.
My hope is that Zhu and the alliance represent a turning point in the international Chinese community and its
allies, a time marked by the emergence of powerful anti-discrimination activism around the world. Her
leadership may galvanize a new generation of Chinese - who in the face of discrimination, may choose courage
and action, confident in the knowledge that they are not alone in this fight.
