What's at stake for AAPI Americans this election

Kulkarni, Manjusha P, Esq

Others

2020-10-30

Executive Director
Asian Pacific Policy and Planning Council (A3PCON)
"Go f**king die, you chink! All of you chinks brought us the Chinese virus."
"Chinese, go back to your country."
These racial slurs are not from 1882; they are commonplace during COVID-19 America.
Unfortunately, discrimination against AAPIs is not new. We saw earlier versions of the "yellow peril" propaganda
used to justify the Chinese Exclusion Act as well as the Japanese American incarceration. This year, it is being
used to perpetrate harm on Asian Americans.
These are just two examples of verbal harassment reported to Stop AAPI Hate, the nation's leading aggregator
of COVID-19-re-lated hate against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, by individuals who experienced
discrimination in the past six months. Stop AAPI Hate was started by my organization, the Asian Pacific Policy and Planning Council (A3PCON), Chinese for Affirmative Action, and San Francisco State University's Asian
American Studies Department in March 2020 after we began to see a surge of incidents against our community
members in California and across the country. Since we launched, we have received over 2,700 incident reports
from 47 states and the District of Columbia.
Stop AAPI Hate has received firsthand reports of verbal attacks against grandparents walking their infant
grandchild, civil rights violations like workplace discrimination against a doctor and a case of refusal of service
against a young woman in a grocery store, and even physical assaults against students in school and parents at
a pharmacy.
In the past and present, the AAPI community are treated like perpetual foreigners. Yet, America is our country.
Many of us were born here. And others like me came when we were children. We are U.S. citizens and the
fastest growing electorate of any racial or ethnic group, according to the Pew Research Group. In this year's
election, eleven million of us are eligible to vote, making up 5% of the nation's eligible voters. But, in order for
us to be counted and for issues of concern to us to matter to elected leaders, we must vote.
However, according to AAPI Data, only 56% of Asian Americans eligible to vote were registered in the 2016
election compared to 73% of Whites and African Americans and only 84% of Asian Americans turned out to vote
compared with 87% of Whites and 91% of African Americans.
In 2000, A3PCON and our member organizations, serving and representing the 1.5 million AAPIs in Los Angeles
County, got together to ask ourselves important and hard questions: Why are our registered voter numbers so
low? What are the barriers the AAPI community faces that limit their engagement with our electoral process?
And what can we do to empower our community to vote in larger numbers?.
Over the past decade, we have worked with the Los Angeles County Registrar's Office to ensure ballots are
available in multiple Asian languages. That work has paid off and today, individuals can request not only ballots,
but also voter education materials as well as voter assistance services in Chinese, Hindi, Japanese, Khmer,
Korean, Tagalog, Thai, Vietnamese, Bengali, Burmese, Gujarati, Indonesian, Mongolian and Telugu. This ensures
that even those in our community who are not able to read and write in English can still participate in our
elections. And A3PCON has sought to make voter guides available in many AAPI languages as well, helping
individuals to understand the options for voting in the 2020 general election and the measures on which they
are deciding California's future.
A lot is at stake and we must engage in the electoral process. We need to build our community power and voting
bloc to elect candidates who will promote inclusive policies that protect our families and communities.
Many have said this is the most important election of our lifetimes. They are not wrong. This is our opportunity
to honor those that came before us and make a difference in our life and the lives of our family members. All we
seek is the safety and well-being of our communities, cities, state, and nation.
