'I was devastated': Woman shares story of racist incident in Richmond Hill Dollarama

None

Others

2021-08-26

For the whole day after she heard the racist word thrown at her, she couldn't stop shaking. 
Now she can barely speak about the episode without breaking down in tears. 
While visiting Richmond Hill from her home in Washington, D.C. in mid-August, Caroline Leung said she was called a racist epithet and told to "go back to China" by two women she'd kindly asked to move away from her in a local Dollarama. 
"I felt attacked, unprotected and violated," said the 41-year-old PhD student at the University of Maryland. "I was devastated." 
Now, she's going public with the incident to educate Canadians about how racist behaviour, often associated to the United States, is also alive and well in her native land. 
--- 
"In the United States, I hear people telling me to go back to China quite often Canadians think this is an American problem but it's not at all," said Leung. "All the stuff we see on the surface (of Canadian culture) that moment made it feel like, 'Is this all just a cover'? The negative sentiment is there against Asians. You can ask any BIPOC person and they will tell you this is not a lone incident." 
Leung, a mother of one who was born in Canada, said she was one of the first people at the Canada/U.S. border when COVID-19 restrictions were lifted and she could finally to come visit her family north of the border. 
The trip was going well until she decided to swing by the Dollarama at Major Mackenzie Drive and Bayview Avenue to buy some souvenirs to help her young son remember the trip. 
While in line at the store, there were two women who repeatedly bumped into her, she said. 
"I said 'do you mind if you stay on the sticker, I would be more comfortable'," she said. 
In reply the women called her the slur and followed that up with calls to "go back to China." 
"The other woman said 'she's wearing one of those cheap Chinese masks'," Leung added. "The only way I felt I could protect myself was to bring out my camera and start filming." 
Leung said her actions resulted in other customers suggesting she was wrong to film others, until she explained what the women had said to her. 
When she arrived at the counter, the cashier who Leung felt did not want to get involved, said it might be best to exit immediately. 
"She said 'I think it's best if you leave the store'," she explained. "I went in my car and I was shaking, I felt very attacked. This is the neighbourhood I grew up in. My father used to live down the street. To have this happen in a place I call home was horrible ... Canada is my safe place" 
Leung then explained how she felt re-victimized when she noticed the women were being served by the same cashier. 
Dollarama staff were dismissive when approached with her concerns both in person and over email, she added. 
In reply to allegations that staff should be better trained and they didn't treat the incident with the gravity Leung expected, Dollarama said staff are specifically trained to avoid heated interactions. 
"Dollarama aims to promote a safe, discrimination-free and inclusive store environment for both customers and employees," said Annie Bedard, a spokesperson for the 
company. 
"Also note that our store employees, as policy, are also instructed to not engage in any argument, altercation or confrontation between other parties, to ensure their safety at all times." 
Phyllis Naccarato, Leung's mother, said she hopes the interaction teaches people this type of behaviour is not acceptable, especially in a nation where so many people are children of immigrants or immigrants themselves. 
"It brings sadness, I get teary just talking about it," she said. "It's particularly disappointing when it's your own child." 
CAPTION: 
Caroline Lueng says a woman attacked her with a racial epithet following an interaction at the Dollarama at Bayview and Major Mackenzie in Richmond Hill. 