Racist spews anti-Asian slurs on subway. Safety concerns grow

Randall

Others

2021-08-23

Yet another racist incident on a New York subway train. 
According to influencer Jackfroot, an Asian American woman said she had boarded a train and had barely sat down, when another woman began verbally assaulting her. 
A video posted on Instagram Sunday shows that passenger calling the Asian American woman a ch*nk and warning "Don't f*ck with me. Ch*nk." 
Just this past March, a woman hit an Asian passenger across the face without provocation and then began yelling racial slurs. 
The following month, a man spit on an Asian woman and her three children. 
Then a drunk man tried to push an Asian woman onto the subway tracks in Brooklyn before being stopped. 
All three of those incidents happened in the New York Subway system. 
Recently, Mayor Bill De Blasio pledged to focus subway patrols on bias crimes, according to the New York Times. 
Crisanna Tang told the Times said that in July a maskless man spit on her and told her to go back to China. 
She says she now pays to take the more expensive express bus rather than to ride on a subway and risk her own safety. 
"I just wish these incidents would stop," Tang said. "I am worried about the elderly community. I am really worried not enough is being done for them." 
This past April, protesters took the subway system to loudly express their concern and to distribute safety messages to passengers recently. 
"We are outraged that Asian Americans are being attacked both above and below ground. And to make matters worse, bystanders are watching us get attacked with complete indifference. This is absolutely unacceptable! Asian American are human beings, and we should be treated as such. That is why we are protesting and why we are giving our fellow New Yorkers the push- and the tools they need to become better upstanders for everyone in our city," Barbara Yau, who co- founded the group Concerned Asian American Citizens of New York City with Shirley L. Ng. and Judy Ng last year. 
Both Yau and Ng also volunteer to report for AsAmNews.
