Anti-Asian racism hurts everyone

None

Others

2021-06-11

The recent rise in anti-Asian hate crimes are horrific and heartbreaking, but also just the latest instance of anti- Asian hate in our country. 
In the past month alone, stories of hate crimes and racist language against Asian-Americans have become commonplace on social media and news outlets. These attacks don't just harm their victims, they also harm the mental and physical health of Asian-Americans and all Americans. 
As an Asian-American physician, I would know. 
Of the 2,000 students who attended my high school in Omaha, Nebraska, there were a total of seven or eight Asians in the whole school - amid only 12 students of color. I felt the pressure of wanting to fit in of wanting to be white - and that pressure of course took a toll on my well-being. 
The numerous instances of anti-Asian racism we experience - from seemingly less serious jokes about our eyes; to having, "Go back to [insert wrong country here]!" yelled at us; to being the victim of or witness to physical attacks have dire consequences for our health. Trauma after trauma compounds, and racist barriers to health 
care make it even harder to treat. 
But it's not just Asian-Americans who are harmed by these racist actions, it's all of us. 
Take, for example, the Asian hate enabled by many during the COVID-19 pandemic. We are all tired of the pandemic: having to quarantine, avoid loved ones, and wear a mask all the time bothers us - it's only human. 
When our lives are interrupted and filled with worry and frustration, we're faced with a decision about how to move forward. Unfortunately, in American history, it's been common for some to spiral into negativity and seek someone to blame - as we've seen with Japanese internment camps, McCarthyism and Islamophobia following 9/11. 
Like a nervous athlete who gets inside his or her head and 'chokes', some people make a worried situation worse by becoming negative and hateful contributing to the heavy mental and physical burden already carried by 
Asian Americans. 
But think also of where we could be as a nation had those Americans channeled their energy into eradicating the pandemic and easing the economic burden it caused. 
- 
Nervous athletes don't have to choke with the right mindset they can use this energy to instead have sometimes unbelievable performances - when you hear of an athlete "in the zone," this is what they mean. 
If we want to be stronger if we all want to be healthier and happier - we have to learn how to channel our energy not into hate, racism, or blame, but into positive solutions. 
For resources on anti-Asian hate please visit stopAAPIhate.org or anti-asianviolence resources.carrd.co/. 
Christopher Chiou is a family physician in Lansing, he is also Taiwanese-American. 
Your Turn 
Christopher Chiou 
Guest columnist 
