Reports of anti-Asian hate top 10,000

Randall

Others

2021-11-18

A new study just released by Stop AAPI Hate reveals that reports of hate from Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have now reached 10,370. 
The period covered begins with the start of the pandemic from March 19, 2020 to September 30, 2021. 
A survey released in conjunction with the report found Asian Americans with a high school education are experiencing hate at twice the rate of those with at least some college. 
41 out of 100 of those who halted their education after high school report being victims of anti-Asian hate versus 20% of those who entered college and 13% of those with a BA or higher degree. 
"It's tragic but not surprising that Asian Americans with lower education levels are experiencing more hate," said Cynthia Choi, co-founder of Stop AAPI Hate and co-executive director of Chinese for Affirmative Action. "Anti-Asian hate is tied to systemic racism against our community. Stopping hate is not about quick fixes like law enforcement but about deeper investment in our communities." 
Equally troubling for Asian American parents, 30% report their children have experienced anti-Asian hate in school. 31% of Pacific Islander parents report the same thing about their kids. 
"The levels of Asian American children experiencing hate in school is devastatingly high," said Russell Jeung, Ph.D., co- founder of Stop AAPI Hate and professor of Asian American Studies at San Francisco State University. "There needs to be an urgent push toward incorporating solutions that promote racial understanding in schools, including through investment in Ethnic Studies." 
However, the concern is not limited to just children. Adults report being worried about going back to work due to the backlash facing many Asian Americans. 
31% of Asian Americans and 26.4% of Pacific Islanders say they've experienced a hate incident at work during the past 
year. 
23.5% of Asian Americans and 21.7% of Pacific Islanders say they fear going back to work because of potential hate or discrimination. 
"When it comes to stopping anti-Asian hate, our elected leaders should be responsive to the Asian American community," Manjusha Kulkarni, co-founder of Stop AAPI Hate and executive director of Asian Pacific Policy and Planning Council. "Locally and nationally, they must make real investments in civil rights, community resources, and education.” 
AsAmNews has done numerous reports on efforts to further education about Asian Americans in the schools. 
More education and public awareness is cited as the number one solution by 
52.8% for AAs and 57.5% for PIs. 
Community-based solutions and civil rights rank 2nd and 3rd ahead of more law enforcement. 