UC investigates instructor calling COVID-19 'the Chinese virus'

Mitchell, Madeline

Others

2020-09-19

A University of Cincinnati dean is investigating an email to an engineering student in which an adjunct instructor
is accused of referring to the novel coronavirus as "the Chinese virus." The email came after the student had to
miss a lab session due to being quarantined for possible exposure to the novel coronavirus.
"I think that the school should take disciplinary actions against the professor because (his) actions completely
violate the school's values," 20-year-old Evan Sotzing told The Enquirer Thursday evening.
UC investigation underway
University spokeswoman M.B. Reilly said Thursday night that the "matter has already come to the attention of
the dean who is already looking into this on behalf of the student."
Sotzing said he has been in contact with UC's Dean of Engineering and Applied Science, John Weidner, who he
says is "looking into it."
Weidner said he referred the matter for review to the university's Office of Equal Opportunity and Access. That
department handles inquiries regarding discrimination, harassment or retaliation based on disability, race, color,
religion, national origin and other identities, according to their website.
"These types of xenophobic comments and stigmatizations around location or ethnicity are more than troubling.
We can better protect and care for all when we speak about COVID-19 with both accuracy and empathy – something we should all strive for," Weidner wrote to The Enquirer.
Emails lay out incident
Sotzing received the email from John Ucker, who is listed as an adjunct instructor in UC's College of Engineering
and Applied Science. He did not reply to an email from The Enquirer Thursday evening.
In emails forwarded to The Enquirer, Sotzing, a third-year engineering student, wrote to Ucker that he would not
be able to attend an in-person lab scheduled for Tuesday because his girlfriend tested positive for the novel
coronavirus at UC's University Health Services.
Sotzing was tested the same day, he said, and he received a negative COVID-19 result. However, Sotzing said
the university's health officials told him to quarantine for two weeks because of his proximity to a positive
patient.
Those tests were taken on Sept. 4, Sotzing said. The lab was scheduled for Tuesday, on Sept. 15, which would
have fallen in the two-week quarantine time period.
Sotzing provided photo evidence of his test results in an email to Ucker, and wrote that he had been told not to
attend any in-person classes until Thursday. Ucker did not reply to Sotzing's email until after the in-person lab
had already happened.
"For students testing positive for the chinese (sic) virus, I will give no grade," the email reads. "You can read the
info I sent to the class re: the torsion test."
'This kind of language is completely unacceptable'
UC stated in its Return to Campus Guide that it encourages faculty to be flexible with students, especially in
regards to attendance policies during the pandemic. Weidner said Ucker has a "routine policy" of allowing
students to forego one of the lab tests so that a grade will not be recorded.
UC has reported 321 COVID-19 cases among students as of Thursday. Hamilton County officials said this week
the positive rate for the new coronavirus is spiking in Cincinnati's Corryville, Mount Auburn and CUF (Clifton
Heights/University Heights/Fairview) neighborhoods around UC.
Sotzing said he is not clear whether Ucker's message meant he was getting a zero grade or if the professor is
merely not grading the assignment.
"This kind of language is completely unacceptable. And especially from people, like, in power... it has no place in
this country and it contributes to Asian xenophobia," Sotzing said.
Sotzing posted the professor's email response on Twitter Thursday afternoon.
"My girlfriend tested positive for COVID and the University of Cincinnati's Health Department instructed me to
not attend my in-person lab. Not only did my professor give me a zero for not going, but this was his response,"
the post reads, with a screenshot of the email. Within three hours, the post had over 6,000 likes and over 2,000
retweets.
"He needs to apologize for the fact that he made that comment," Sotzing told The Enquirer Thursday.
Harassment rising towardAsian Americans
News of the investigation came on the same day that the U.S. House of Representatives passed a measure
condemning anti-Asian bigotry and discrimination during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Increased numbers of Asian Americans have reported harassment and even physical assaults amid political
rhetoric blaming China for the pandemic from President Donald Trump and others. The House measure, a nonbinding resolution, does not require the Senate to pass it, nor does it require the president's signature The Tangeman University Center at the University of Cincinnati's campus on March 11.
