Plainfield official sued over alleged racist COVID-19 comments

Muscavage, Nick

Others

2020-09-23

PLAINFIELD – A Fanwood man is suing a Plainfield Fire Department official and the city over claims he was the
victim of discrimination because of comments made to him about COVID-19.
Timothy Burkhard, who is Asian American, filed a lawsuit against Plainfield and Deputy Fire Chief Pietro Martino,
after Martino made discriminatory comments about Burkhard's ethnicity and the coronavirus, according to the
lawsuit.
Burkhard, who was hired as a firefighter at the Plainfield Fire Department in July 2018, filed his lawsuit in Union
County Superior Court in July. The case was dismissed but was later reinstated by Union County Superior Court
Judge Mark Ciarrocca on Sept. 11.
In March, Martino began to make "racist comments about Asians" to Burkhard during the fire department's
training on COVID-19, according to the lawsuit.
Martino "mockingly" asked Burkhard if he had recently been to Wuhan, China "while he squinted his eyes so that
they narrowed in a racist caricature of Asian facial features and left his mouth open," according to the lawsuit.
The "outrageous conduct" was witnessed by at least 19 firefighters attending the training, the lawsuit claims.
Five lieutenants and a battalion chief were among those present.
None of the firefighters present objected to Martino's comments or told him they were inappropriate, according to the lawsuit. Martino never apologized.
Burkhard's lawyer, Pitman based-attorney Sebastian Ionno, called Martino's alleged comments "appalling."
"It is even more appalling that the City of Plainfield was provided timely notice of this incident and failed to
remediate or repudiate this repulsive racist and divisive conduct," he said in a statement. "Thankfully, New
Jersey's Law Against Discrimination does not change with the political winds and always prohibits discrimination
even when a person's race or ethnicity may not be popular due to external world events."
Plainfield did not respond to requests for comment.
Martino's conduct has resulted in a workplace where firefighters "now believe it is acceptable workplace behavior
to openly disparage Asian-Americans for their race and as being responsible for the spread of Coronavirus,"
according to the lawsuit.
Because of Martino's "grossly discriminatory conduct," Burkhard has been subjected to a hostile workplace
environment because of his race.
Martino has also been involved in several other "harassment incidents," according to the lawsuit.
Burkhard, in his lawsuit, contends that Plainfield and Martino violated the state Law Against Discrimination in
disregard of his rights.
As a result, Burkhard has suffered annoyance, inconvenience, stress, anxiety, humiliation, depression and
severe emotional distress, the lawsuit says.
Burkhard's lawsuit is not the first time racial discrimination has been alleged at the Plainfield Fire Department.
In 2018, Plainfield agreed to pay $450,000 to settle a lawsuit filed by a former deputy fire chief alleging he was
the victim of discrimination.
Jeffrey Courtney, who is white, filed a lawsuit in 2016 against former Plainfield Fire Chief Frank Tidwell, the city
and fire department alleging that he was not promoted to chief based on the color of his skin.
The settlement also included Courtney's retirement. According to public records, Courtney made $140,140 as
deputy fire chief.
Tidwell filed his own lawsuit against the city, the mayor and multiple officials alleging that they engaged in a
conspiracy to force him into retirement. Mayor Adrian Mapp was dismissed from the lawsuit last year.
The lawsuit is ongoing in Union County Superior Court.
