Increased racism against Asian-Americans amid pandemic: Report

None

Others

2020-09-18

Los Angeles, Sep 18 (IANS) A report released by a US civil rights group showed Asian-Americans have
experienced increased racism since the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country more than 6 months ago.
The report was issued on Thursday by the Stop AAPI Hate Reporting Center, which was formed in March by the
Asian Pacific Policy and Planning Council, Chinese for Affirmative Action and San Francisco State University's
Asian American Studies department, reports Xinhua news agency.
As of August 5, the report said, 2,583 incidents of anti-Asian discrimination nationwide had been self-reported,
in which over 40 per cent, namely 1,116 reports, occurred in California.

Reports submitted to the group were likely under-counted, the survey noted, citing that 5.4 per cent of Asian-
Americans in California reported being "unfairly treated" due to race or ethnicity, compared to 2.1 per cent of all

state residents during pandemic.
The report underlined the impact of racism and xenophobia against Asian-American youth during the pandemic,
while analyzing 341 incidents of anti-Asian discrimination involving youth reported to the Stop AAPI Hate
Reporting Center from March 19 to July 22.
"In over half (56 per cent) of these cases, perpetrators employed anti-Chinese hate speech, including blaming
China and Chinese as the source of the virus and mocking Chinese dietary habits.
"Even though adults were present in almost half of the incidents (48 per cent), bystanders intervened in only 10
per cent of the cases," the report said.
Tony Thurmond, California State Superintendent of Public Instruction, was quoted as saying that country is
suffering two pandemics: Covid-19 and racism.
"It breaks my heart that so many of our Asian-American and Pacific Islander youth and families have been
subject to demeaning, discriminatory attacks," he said.
"All Asian Americans are being hit hard by the groundswell of anti-Asian rhetoric promoted by our president, but
youth are particularly vulnerable," warned Russell Jeung, professor of Asian-American studies at San Francisco
State University.
"The hate Asian-American youths are facing could cause irreparable damage to their self-identity and social
relationships."
