Professor on leave after 'Chinese virus' email

Mitchell, Madeline

Others

2020-09-24

The University of Cincinnati professor accused of referring to COVID-19 as "the Chinese virus" has been put on
administrative leave with pay.
In an email sent to adjunct instructor John Ucker, UC's College of Engineering and Applied Sciences Dean John
Weidner wrote that Ucker's courses will be handled by another faculty member for the time being.
"As you are aware, a student in one of your courses has raised a concern regarding one of your emails. This
matter has been referred to UC's Office of Equal Opportunity and Access ("OEOA") for review. As such, effective
immediately you are being placed on an administrative leave with pay pending the outcome of that review," the
email reads.
Ucker's "full cooperation" with the OEOA review is "both expected and appreciated," Weidner wrote.
Weidner began investigating after third-year engineering student Evan Sotzing, 20, posted on social media an
email he received from Ucker. The email came after Sotzing had to miss a lab session due to being quarantined
for possible exposure to the coronavirus.
"For students testing positive for the chinese (sic) virus, I will give no grade," the email reads. "You can read the
info I sent to the class re: the torsion test."
Sotzing's post on Twitter had over 37,500 retweets and more than 166,500 likes as of Tuesday evening.
"I think that the school should take disciplinary actions against the professor because (his) actions completely
violate the school's values," Sotzing previously told The Enquirer.
Sotzing said he is not clear whether Ucker's message meant he was getting a zero grade or if the professor is
merely not grading the assignment. He said he was offended by what he called "racist language" from Ucker in
the email, and the notion that Ucker might punish a student for adhering to national, state and local health
guidelines.
The following morning, Weidner confirmed that the matter was referred for review to the OEOA. That
department handles inquiries regarding discrimination, harassment or retaliation based on disability, race, color,
religion, national origin and other identities, according to its website.
"These types of xenophobic comments and stigmatizations around location or ethnicity are more than troubling.
We can better protect and care for all when we speak about COVID-19 with both accuracy and empathy –
something we should all strive for," Weidner wrote to The Enquirer.
News of the investigation came on the same day that the U.S. House of Representatives passed a measure
condemning anti-Asian bigotry and discrimination during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Increased numbers of Asian Americans have reported harassment and even physical assaults amid political
rhetoric blaming China for the pandemic from President Donald Trump and others.
The House measure, a nonbinding resolution, does not require the Senate to pass it, nor does it require the
president's signature.
According to Ucker's personnel file, he has taught at the university since 1996. A letter sent in August states
Ucker was offered an adjunct position in the College of Engineering and Applied Science effective Aug. 24
through Dec. 12, and compensated $3,600 for the semester.
The letter states three requirements Ucker is expected to fulfill: to hold two office hours per week; not to miss
any classes; and to "do a good job teaching and taking care of the students."
