Divided we fall

YASA, DILVIN

Others

2020-07-19

From being told you’re “too pretty to be Aboriginal” to being blamed for COVID-19, three women on the
receiving end of racial abuse share their experiences with Dilvin Yasa.
It’s the land of mateship and fair go, but Australian academics have been documenting some disturbing factors
where minority groups are concerned.
According to the University of Western Sydney’s Challenging Racism Project, one in three people experienced
racism in the workplace in 2015-16, while a 2013 study published in the Journal of Youth and Adolescence found
seven in 10 students experienced or observed racism during their childhood.
Professor Tim Soutphommasane, Australia’s race discrimination commissioner from 2013 to 2018 and the author
of On Hate, says that while we’re seeing a global anti-racism moment, with people across the world talking and
thinking about racism with a new level of seriousness, racism is on the rise on home ground. “Bodies such as
the Australian Human Rights Commission and some state anti-discrimination bodies have received a higher
number of complaints about racial discrimination,” he explains. “There has been a spike in racial hostility
directed at people from Asian backgrounds in particular.”
This isn’t a matter of “hurt feelings”, or that people who are targets of racial taunts are delicate or sensitive, Soutphommasane adds.
“There’s a large amount of research that shows the psychological, even physiological, effects of racism on
people’s wellbeing; it can diminish a person and sap them of their dignity.
People who aren’t from minority backgrounds don’t always understand the damage it can cause.” Lee Lin Chin
was the first person I idolised, because of everything she represented. With her media career, quirky wardrobe
and short hair, not only was she the antithesis of the ‘typical’ Asian mould of that ladylike woman with the long,
glossy hair, but she was visible to mainstream Australia at a time when minority groups were invisible on screen.
“When you’re Asian, there are all these expectations you’ll be good with numbers or work in medicin. But I was
passionate about drama and the arts. Square peg, round hole.
I grew up in an environment where it wasn’t unusual to have people scream ‘Go back to your own country’ as
you’re going about your business.
That’s sad in itself but one of the things that’s been concerning me lately is the fetishisation of Asian women.
I’ve been stalked on trains by masturbating men and once I was followed home by a guy who kept asking, ‘Are
you an accountant? Do you work in finance?’ It happens in the workplace, too; earlier in my career, I remember
one of my company directors picking me up and swinging me around as he told me how much he loves Asian
women. It’s a strange fixation that’s rooted in male dominance and white supremacy.
The COVID-19 era has brought to light an overt form of racism I haven’t experienced for a long time. Recently I
was standing in line at Aldi with my four-year-old son and, even though I was following social-distancing
guidelines, the woman in front turned around and spat, ‘Maintain social distancing because you are Asian.’
I told her that I was born here and that I didn’t personally cause the virus, but it fell on deaf ears. I understand
it’s a time of fear for everyone but that incident has really shaken me. I’ve been anxious about going out in
public and I ask myself, ‘Do people see me, or do they see “generic Asian spreading disease”?’ It’s a terrible way
to live.
I don’t think Australia is more racist than other countries but I think we believe we’re a lot more tolerant than
we really are. This is a country filled with citizens who think nothing of saying, ‘Oh, you speak really good
English’ to someone with a broad Aussie accent. And ‘I don’t normally like Asians but you’re pretty nice’, and
then laughing it off as some kind of joke. As a stand-up comedian [Ngo is a member of the Tight 5 Comedy
group], I can tell you with some experience that ‘casual racism’ is no laughing matter.”
“MOST OF THE RACISM I’VE EXPERIENCED HAS COME FROM OTHER RECENT ARRIVALS“ Maie Sufan, a “40-
something” engineer and support relations co-ordinator for Islamic Relief Australia, moved to Australia from her
native Syria in 2006.
“When I moved to Australia for love, I left behind a very successful life as an engineer and lecturer. It was hard
to leave my country but even though I wasn’t sure about how different things would be culturally in Australia, I
wasn’t too worried. I knew it to be a multicultural nation and Australians have a reputation overseas for being
friendly and inclusive. I felt welcomed as soon as I landed.
When you wear a headscarf you get used to people openly staring, but while I’ve had my share of ‘f...ing Muslim’
comments in the streets, I’ve only ever had two major incidents where the behaviour has been extreme.
The first time was not long after I arrived, when a woman in her 50s followed me around a shopping centre
screaming in my face about why I was in ‘her country’. She yelled, ‘We have a stupid government letting stupid
Muslims like you into our country.’
She was aggressive and intimidating.
The second time was at the Royal Sydney Easter Show when I picked up an egg in the barn, not knowing this
was something I was not allowed to do, and a man nearby began screaming at me. He was annoyed about
the egg but made his argument about my religion, background and about people not understanding where
they belong.
Both times I held my ground and defended my right to be in Australia but these experiences are infuriating.
Yes, of course it’s their country but it’s my country, too. What’s more, I love this country by choice.
Over the years I’ve discovered that the people who think it’s okay to make hurtful comments are not
necessarily who you think they might be. Most of the racism I’ve experienced over the last 14 years has come
from those with different cultural backgrounds and other recent arrivals to this country.
By contrast, the majority of ‘typical’ Australians have been very friendly and accepting and I’ve made some
lovely friends. When the Lindt Cafe situation unfolded in 2014, people went out of their way to ensure I was
okay and that I remained safe. I think two major incidents and a handful of comments in 14 years isn’t
unreasonable.
The biggest problem with racism in our country is that the poison often trickles from the top down. It seems
as though if anyone wants to be successful in politics in Australia, they have to start spouting hate speech
about other cultures. These are our leaders and our role models, and if we’re learning how to treat our fellow
Australians from them, we’re going to be in big trouble moving forward.” “Born to a proud Wadjanbarra Yidinji
and Jirrbal mother and an African- American father, I often refer to myself as ‘double black’. It took me years
to claim that identity because so much of my childhood was spent figuring out who I was.
When we moved to the States, I was told I couldn’t identify as black because I had ‘lighter skin and good
hair’. To them, I was mixed. When we moved back to Australia, when I was 10, it was just as strange. I didn’t
grow up on country and didn’t look like my extended family. As a kid I didn’t feel Aboriginal enough and I
grew up confused about what being black even meant.
I was 11 when I first heard the words ‘You’re too pretty to be Aboriginal’, and that’s the moment I realised
being Aboriginal was considered dirty, like no good can come of it. Over the years, there have been others:
‘You’re not like the rest’, ‘You’re too articulate’ and ‘You could pass yourself off as Brazilian – that’s much
better.’
There is this view that I should be happy by my proximity to whiteness, as though assimilation is something
I’m trying desperately to achieve, but people don’t realise comments like that perpetuate genocide on my
culture. In efforts to explore my Aboriginality and beauty I created the documentary Too Pretty to Be
Aboriginal, which screened in 2019 on NITV Our Stories.
When there’s hate bubbling up around you, there’s also a level of internal racism you experience. I was raised
with messages like, ‘You’re black so you have to work twice as hard.’ And, ‘Don’t behave in a way that can be
deemed as too urban or show too much attitude lest you’re labelled aggressive.’ You learn to present yourself
in a way that’s socially acceptable for the masses but it’s at the cost of your identity.
When I started my magazine, Ascension, I wanted it to be a one-stop shop for women of colour but since the
Black Lives Matter protests began, I’ve noticed a significant shift in the demographic of my readership.
For the first time ever, people from all backgrounds are coming to us, eager to embrace diversity. And while
one part of me feels like shouting, ‘Yes! This is the opportunity we’ve been waiting for’, another part can’t
help wondering if we’re just a trend. Is it Black Lives Matter today and then something else tomorrow? I’m
opting to remain positive.
Not to take away support from America – I’m an African-American woman; my people need it – but
Australia needs to acknowledge its own black history first and stop sweeping it under the carpet. It’s
hypocritical to say “black lives matter” but then deny ours.
I don’t believe the government will ever come to the table to rectify the atrocities against my people.
I truly believe that if Australians can channel the compassion and love of humanity displayed during the
bushfires and extend it to First Nations people, we could start a revolution.
The solution starts with us.” • If you experience racial discrimination you can lodge a complaint with the
Australian Human Rights Commission at humanrights.gov.au/complaints.
CREDIT: Dilvin Yasa
Copyright (c) 2020 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. www.smh.com.au. Not available for re-
distribution.
