Coronavirus stoking rising racism against Chinese-Canadians, survey finds

None

Others

2020-06-25

A survey in Canada has confirmed reports that racism against people of Chinese ethnicity has been on the rise since the country reported its first cases of Covid-19 in March.
Half of the Chinese-Canadians polled said they had been called names or insulted as a direct consequence of the pandemic and 43 per cent said they had been personally threatened or intimidated.
More than 60 per cent of respondents had adjusted their daily routines in a bid to avoid unpleasant encounters.
The survey, which questioned 516 Canadians of Chinese ethnicity, was conducted by the University of Alberta and the Angus Reid Institute, a non-profit public opinion research agency, against a backdrop of rising anti-China and anti-Asian racism, as well as xenophobia.
Vancouver police said in May that anti-Asian hate crime was on the rise, with 16 reports made in March and April, compared to 12 in the whole of 2019. Also in May, two lion statues at the entrance to the city's Chinatown were defaced twice with racist graffiti.
Discrimination has been stoked by the use of terms such as "Chinese virus" and "Wuhan virus" by senior figures in the United States, including President Donald Trump and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. While Trump dropped references to the "Chinese virus" in late March, he has recently returned to racially charged terms like "kung flu" and "Chinese flu" at his campaign events.
The survey found two-thirds of respondents felt coverage from North American news outlets had led to negative views of Chinese-Canadians, while three in 10 said they were frequently exposed to racist graffiti or messaging on social media.
A quarter said they were treated with less respect because of their Chinese ethnicity and a similar share said they were made to feel as though they posed a threat to the health and safety of their fellow Canadians.
One man in his 60s told the survey team he had been spat at by a cyclist, while a woman in her 20s said: "Walking down the street with a mask on, there have been instances where people will scream at me to go back to China or swear and say other racist remarks. I look Chinese but I am not from China, even though I have Chinese heritage. Makes it all very confusing."
Another respondent, a woman in her 30s, said she had been repeatedly yelled at in the streets of her neighbourhood.