Spate of anti-Asian racism revealed

Koslowski, Max

Others

2020-06-08

Asian-Australians have reported almost 400 racist attacks since the beginning of April to the country's leading survey of anti-China racism.
The figures prompted calls for the federal government to track racism better as federal MPs accused the Chinese government of spreading divisive propaganda when on Saturday it encouraged its citizens to avoid travelling to Australia due to a "significant increase" in racial discrimination amid coronavirus.
Osmond Chiu, a fellow at independent progressive think tank Per Capita, authored the survey in collaboration with the Asian Australian Alliance and Being Asian Australian. "There definitely has been an increase," he said, noting that compared to similar data from the United States there has been a higher proportion of racist incidents against Asian- Australians than Asian-Americans.
The survey, which started on April 2 and will be completed this month, has so far documented 386 racist incidents, including abuse, physical intimidation and spitting.
The survey also revealed that roughly 90 per cent of racist incidents were not being reported to police and the vast majority were perpetrated by strangers in public.
Mr Chiu called on the federal government to improve what he said was a disjointed incident reporting process, potentially through the Human Rights Commission.
Labor's multicultural affairs spokesman Andrew Giles backed the call as a way to help develop a strong anti-racism strategy.
"We've got to do a better job at tracking racism," Mr Giles said.
"There's clearly confusion as to how people can report racist incidents and we feel there's a role for national government to do considerably more."
Liberal senator Andrew Bragg said the federal government had run an anti-racism campaign during the pandemic, encouraging Australians to report incidents to the Human Rights Commission. "There's not much more we can do other than call it out from the Prime Minister, call it out from senior ministers and run a supportive campaign directly to people," he said. "I'm very pleased with the response."
Liberal senator James Paterson said China's comments were a diversion from its own conduct.
"Australians rightly deplore racism. Knowing this, the Chinese Communist Party uses accusations of racism in an attempt to divide us and deflect criticism of their own conduct," he said.
Mr Chiu accused the Chinese government of politicising racism, but noted there was a middle ground between calling out the Chinese Communist Party and recognising anti-Chinese racism was growing.
"If you look at it globally, you've seen an increase in COVID-related racism across the world," he said.