United States: US Watchdog Tracks Over 2,100 Anti-Asian Incidents

None

Others

2020-06-29

Since mid-March, a U.S.-based coalition has tracked more than 2,100 anti-Asian hate incidents, a troubling figure that Asian American advocates say is being fueled in part by political rhetoric against China during the coronavirus pandemic.
While racial slurs and other forms of verbal harassment constituted the vast majority of the incidents, nearly eight percent involved physical assaults, businesses barring Asian Americans from entering their establishments due to misplaced coronavirus fears, and attackers coughing and spitting on victims, according to STOP AAPI Hate, an anti-Asian hate tracker.
In one incident in March, a group of African American teenagers on a commuter rail in San Francisco used their backpacks to attack a mask-wearing Asian American, saying he had COVID-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus.
Chinese Americans raise funds for medical supplies despite rising racial threats
In another occurrence in April, a stranger threw a large rock through the atrium window of a Chinese American family's house in Santa Rosa, California. The house had Chinese writing along the front door as a blessing for good health and harmony.
These are first-hand accounts where individuals are describing harrowing and traumatizing experiences, including what is being said to them when they're being attacked, said Cynthia Choi, co-executive director of Chinese for Affirmative Action, one of the coalition partners.
Asian Americans have been targeted before during public health crises, as was the case during the 2003 SARS epidemic. The latest wave of anti-Asian hate comes at a time of heightened tensions over the pandemic fueled by the anti-China rhetoric of President Donald Trump and other politicians. Trump, who initially praised China for its handling of the crisis, subsequently blamed China's leader Xi Jinping for waiting weeks to report the outbreak in Wuhan to the World Health Organization and covering up the severity of the problem.
Trump has repeatedly referred to the coronavirus as the Chinese virus and kung-flu, terms that Asian American advocates say are derogatory and have exacerbated the scapegoating of Americans of Asian descent.
Trump disputes that those and other terms are racist. White House counselor Kellyanne Conway, who several weeks ago criticized the phrase kung-flu as highly offensive, and press secretary Kayleigh McEnany both said this week that the president used the term merely to highlight that the virus originated in China.
But Asian American leaders say the meaning is not lost on their fast-growing community.
Those are terms meant to be humiliating, said Gene Wu, a Chinese American Democratic member of the Texas House of Representatives.
Bill Ting, a Democratic state assemblyman in California, said the rhetoric has had a direct impact on the surge in anti-Asian harassment and hate crimes.
You see leaders express words that really give license to other people to express those same sentiments and also to act on them, Tung said.
In a recent report examining the link between political rhetoric and anti-Asian bias, STOP AAPI Hate, the Asian American coalition, found that reports of anti-Asian discrimination spiked after Trump repeatedly used the term Chinese virus.
While the vast majority of the 2,100-plus incidents recorded by STOP AAPI Hate do not rise to the level of a hate crime as defined by statute, more than 100 do, according to legal experts.
The FBI reports there has been an uptick in hate crimes and harassment against Asian Americans since the outbreak of COVID-19, which first appeared in Wuhan, China, late last year