Bigotry of pandemic era documented in poll: Half of Chinese Canadians say they've faced ethnic insults since COVID-19

None

Others

2020-06-22

"Every day, I pray that you people die."
That's just one example of the kind of insults and name-calling that half of Chinese Canadians say they have experienced since the coronavirus pandemic arrived in North America, according to a poll by Angus Reid Institute and the University of Alberta released Monday.
The survey results, taken from 516 Canadians who self-identify as ethnically Chinese, suggest just how commonplace racist behaviour against people of East Asian descent has become since the pandemic arrived in North America.
Forty-three per cent of respondents said they have been personally threatened or intimidated at least once, and 13 per cent said it happens frequently. Eight per cent of respondents said they have frequently been physically attacked by strangers.
Researchers from the university helped craft the questions in the survey, conducted June 15-18. The results have a margin of error of plus or minus 4.3 percentage points, 19 times out of 20.
The goal was to collect data on how Chinese Canadians' experience has changed since the pandemic started dominating headlines, said Angus Reid Institute executive director Shachi Kurl.
"What has made the news and what we hear about tends to be the really overt, violent, more extreme examples" of such prejudice, she said.
In Vancouver, a man pushed a 92-year-old man with dementia to the ground outside a convenience store while yelling racist insults about COVID-19. In another incident, a man punched a woman of Asian descent near a bus stop downtown and walked away.
Even Canada's chief public health officer, Dr. Theresa Tam, has been targeted. Conservative MP Derek Sloan questioned her loyalty to Canada in April, asking, is she "working for Canada or working for China?"
"No doubt there would be some out there who say these are just isolated examples," said Kurl. "This study really aims to measure the breadth and the scope and size of the issue - and now we have a sense of that."
Six in 10 respondents said they have changed some aspect of their routine in order to avoid abuse, "run-ins" or "unpleasant encounters" since the pandemic was declared in Canada. Fifty per cent said they have been insulted or called names due to their ethnicity. One in three survey respondents said they have been made to feel like they posed a threat to the health and safety of others.
Of the people who participated in the survey, 44 per cent per cent were born in Canada, 22 per cent in China, 22 per cent in Hong Kong and three per cent from Taiwan. Ten per cent were born in another country.
Nearly 90 per cent of respondents said that being Canadian was an important part of their identity and that they love Canada and what it stands for. Yet a quarter said they feel like outsiders in their own country. Of those who were born in Canada, one in five said they felt like outsiders.
"These data shows us that everything from insults to a sense of othering, to being made to feel that somehow you're to blame for this - it's all part of what affects someone's psyche," said Kurl.
In a 2016 Angus Reid poll, about half of visible-minority respondents said they believe others see them as Canadians "all the time." Respondents in this most recent survey were asked the same question. Only 13 per cent said they feel this way.
A majority (64 per cent) of respondents said they believe North American news outlets have had a negative effect on Canadians' views of people of Chinese ethnicity.
"The whole point of taking measurement of this is we are no longer dealing with anecdotes. This is something that brings empirical data, that brings facts to what has been, up to this point, more of an anecdotal conversation," said Kurl. "You can't argue with that."
The survey, designed with help from University of Alberta researchers, also gave respondents a chance to share details from their experiences. Some of the anonymized responses were published in the report.
One person wrote, "While walking on the streets in Kitsilano (Vancouver), a Caucasian man in his 30s said to me and my daughter, 'Every day, I pray that you people die.'"
Another wrote, "I was at a local Loblaws in the queue to pay and a person behind me got too close. I requested that he back up to allow for social distancing and he stated, 'Shut up and go back to where you came from.'"
About 1.6 million people in Canada - 4.6 per cent of the population - identify as being ethnically Chinese, according to the 2016 census.
Kurl said she hopes even people who have not experienced anti-Asian discrimination personally will pay attention.
"It's happening under our roof. We have to clean it up."