Virus gives unis chance to reset

None

Others

2020-06-09

The COVID-19 pandemic presents universities with an opportunity to rediscover their real purpose. This appears to have been lost, at least at the undergraduate level, due in significant part to a self-destructive business model.
Australian universities have become dependent on the opiate of undergraduate students from overseas. A terrible spiral of needing more money to build more infrastructure to provide degree programs for overseas students has resulted in the destruction of the quality of undergraduate programs, and consequently the perceived worth of degrees earned by previous graduates. Two examples demonstrate the toxic state of affairs. One first-year course that regularly had a failure rate of 30 per cent; now, the lecturer needs the permission of the dean should she/he plan to fail more than 5 per cent. In another course, examination papers need to be handed out in advance so students can cope with the test. What, then, are overseas students paying for? Not a high-quality educational experience; so presumably it is the supposed cachet associated with an Australian university degree. How long before their home countries realise this investment is largely valueless? Meanwhile, the reputation of Australian universities sinks lower. We must restore the quality of the undergraduate educational experience. Initially, this may result in some reduction in income. However, all students - local and overseas - will benefit.
Nicholas Fisher, North Sydney
All the way with the USA
Peter Hartcher correctly warns us of the perils of following in America's footsteps ("Let's not copy a broken empire", June 6-7 ).
Yet here in NSW, the Berejiklian government is bent on doing that very thing. The government's ability to act as a "problem-solving mechanism", which Hartcher points out as the crucial failure of American government, is continually diminished by the mania for privatisation. Once a service, such as public transport, is privatised, codes of conduct or regulatory bodies, the guardians of public interest, quickly fade in the face of economic imperatives.
This is the American way, and the Berejiklian government is bent on following it.
John Croker, Woonona
Rise of the fossils
A strange convergence or a perfect storm? The world's largest investment group, BlackRock, is acting on its words to withdraw support for the climate-damaging fossil fuel industry ("As warned, world's biggest investor acts against coal", June 8).
In NSW, we have a state challenge to the holding of a protest on health and violence grounds. No prizes for guessing the likely next round of major protests will be about climate.
The groundswell of distaste for government inaction and obfuscation, shown last year before the bushfires and the pandemic, is no doubt sitting in the minds of the Liberal and National parties and mining strategists. With BlackRock and its ilk appearing on the horizon, get ready for fossil fuel dinosaurs behaving badly.
Brian Jones, Leura
Rio Tinto destroys an Aboriginal site 46,000 years old and the PM says he hasn't received a brief on it. The NRL chief complains about fans not being allowed in to watch matches and Scott Morrison is all over it like a rash. Whatever you do, don't say anything negative about the mining industry. After all, mining sites are sacred sites.
Paul Laverty, Revesby Heights
H2O dear
NSW Water Minister Melinda Pavey again shows her disregard for water security ("Sydney desal project shelved", June 8). Pavey has not stopped the expansion of coal mining under our dam catchments, and the damage to streams below the Tahmoor coal mine. Decreasing rainfall because of climate change has put us on track to a water calamity. Pavey needs to seriously take on her guardianship of our most precious resource.
Barry Laing, Castle Cove
Let's expand coal mines under the reservoirs and cancel that desal plant until after it's needed again. Planning is easy when you don't give a damn about the future. Peter Newberry, Randwick
Don't turn away
The Per Capita survey reports most racist attacks on Asian Australians are perpetrated by strangers ("Survey records increase in attacks", June 8). The opportunistic nature of these attacks means that, short of not venturing out, Asian Australians cannot even take any precautions to prevent them. I appeal to all fellow Australians to intervene rather than turn away whenever they see such attacks. The victims are also Australians.
Thiam Ang, Beecroft A world of work to do
Clearly Foreign Minister Marise Payne keeps a low profile, rarely putting her head up above the parapet. She needs to hop on a plane and actually do some foreign minister work: first stop Beijing, to improve our relationship with China. Then on to Tehran, where she should negotiate the release of Dr Kylie Moore-Gilbert from Evin prison. Sofia next to pick up Jock Palfreeman, who has been released by the Bulgarian courts and yet is not allowed to leave.
On to London with Julian Assange's bulging file to read en route. Perhaps she could come home via Jakarta and negotiate the release of the five remaining Bali 9 prisoners. Steve Johnson, Elizabeth Beach
Shunt Carriageworks
Why not forget Carriageworks and repurpose the site for homeless accommodation or social housing? Frankly, noise interaction between studios meant it never worked for the writers' festival. There are problems with transport and parking, not to mention the unprepossessing architecture. The White Bay power station could be turned into an arts centre. It's close to the city and has great public transport options. It's been vacant for decades. What is the state government keeping it for?
Pamela Cameron, Rozelle
Class action
An Indigenous teacher in every school plus a Ross Gittins disciple in every high school. Reflect, respect, repair ("Indigenous educator for every school", June 8). Stephen Wilson, Kangaroo Valley