NYPD Creates a Hate-Crime Board

Chapman, Ben

Others

2021-04-20					

The New York Police Department is creating a civilian panel to help address a rise in hate crimes in New York City, department officials said Monday. 
The NYPD Hate Crime Review Panel will help officers identify potential hate crimes occurring in New York City, said New York Police Department Commissioner Dermot Shea. 
The panel will assess circumstances that present challenges in establishing whether race, national origin, ethnicity, religion, disability or sexual orientation were motivating factors in possible hate crimes, he said. 
The NYPD will send cases it considers challenging to the panel for its recommendation to help determine whether evidence the department has gathered might indicate a hate crime. 
The panel will work on crimes targeting all races. Its five volunteer members include Devorah Halberstam, co-founder and director of external affairs of the Jewish Children's Museum, and Fred Teng, president of the America China Public Affairs Institute, Mr. Shea said. 
"Unfortunately, today we are facing nearly daily reports of hate crimes. We need to help stop this," Ms. Halberstam said. 
Mr. Teng, in an interview Monday, said he is honored to participate in the panel's work. 
The NYPD recorded 135 hate crimes from Jan. 1 through April 18, up 45% from 93 in the same period in 2020, according to department figures. 
An increase in hate crimes against Asian-Americans has propelled the overall rise, the figures show. Asians were targeted in 66 hate crimes from Jan. 1 through April 18, up from 12 such crimes in the same period in 2020. 
NYPD officials have said some of the attacks on Asian-Americans have been motivated by the false belief that Asians are responsible for the Covid-19 pandemic. Reports of hate crimes against Asians have increased in cities across the U.S. during the pandemic. 
New York City had the biggest increase in reports of hate crimes against Asians of any U.S. city last year, according to a study published by the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at California State University, San Bernardino. 
Efforts by local, state and federal agencies to address the issue have intensified since the March shootings at Atlanta-area spas in which eight people, including six women of Asian descent, were killed. 
Among its efforts, the NYPD last year created an Asian hate-crime task force, staffed by detectives of Asian descent, to investigate such crimes. As more incidents were reported in 2021, the department began to deploy undercover officers in an effort to discourage 
anti-Asian violence. 
