Community gathers for rally to protest anti-Asian sentiment

DeLetter, Emily

Others

2021-04-12

WEST LAFAYETTE - Saturday's threat of rain did little to deter the crowd that gathered outside of West Lafayette's Sonya L. Margerum City Hall, a group who came together to protest and rally against Asian hate and discrimination around the country. 
The rally, organized by members of West Lafayette's Chinese community, partnered with the city of West Lafayette, YWCA Greater Lafayette, Purdue Student Government and Greater Lafayette Immigrant Allies. 
The crowd of over 100 people listened to speeches from advocates including West Lafayette Mayor John Dennis and City Council member Gerald Thomas. Purdue Student Government President Assata Gilmore read a statement from City Council member and Purdue student Shannon Kang, who was not at the rally. 
"We have such a significant influence from our international population in West Lafayette, and it has turned us into a community that doesn't just recognize when there is abuse going on in our country, when there is hate flying around in our country," Dennis said. "This city turns into an activist city whenever that type of hatred and mistreatment happens." 
Dennis cited a national study from Stop AAPI Hate, which found over 3,700 reported incidents to the group from March 2020 to Feb. 28 of this year. According to the report's findings, the two largest types of discrimination reported were verbal harassment, at 68.1% and shunning, or the deliberate avoidance of Asian Americans, was found at 20.5% of the reports. 
"We have to stop this type of violence, we have to stop this type of racism, and we need to make sure we treat each other with respect, honoring their culture, honoring their place of origin and honoring what they are doing to contribute to this community," Dennis said. 
Kang, who had her statement read by Gilmore, is also currently the Purdue Student Government-president elect. Once she takes office for the next academic year, she will be the first Asian-American woman to hold that position. 
"It isn't just within these past few weeks that I felt I stand out in a crowd, and it isn't the first time I felt I could be terrorized or threatened by hateful speech or actions," part of Kang's statement read. "But I'd like to voice that I feel supported by this community." 
Asian Americans and those of Asian descent living in the U.S. have reported an increase of serious incidents of online hate and harassment as racist and xenophobic slurs blaming people of Asian descent for the coronavirus pandemic spread over the past year, according to a survey shared with USA TODAY. 
The survey, conducted by the ADL (Anti-Defamation League), reported that around 17% of Asian American reported sexual harassment, stalking, physical threats and other incidents, up from 11% last year. 
USA TODAY reported that half of them said the harassment was spurred by their race or ethnicity, according to the survey from anti-hate group ADL. Overall, 21% of Asian-American respondents said they were harassed online. 
Saturday's rally follows the fatal shootings of eight people, including six women of Asian descent, at Atlanta-area massage parlors March 16. 
After the speeches, the crowd, many holding signs, marched around the block and concluded the rally with a song from children of local Chinese families. 
Rally organizer and moderator Shan Chen, who has lived in West Lafayette for around 10 years, said she recognized the surge of anti-Asian crimes and sentiments around the country, especially with the arrival of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
"We need to raise awareness about this," Chen said. "We are not living on an isolated island, and if there are things like this around the country it will affect us sooner or later." 
Chen met with city leaders, and got in touch with City Council member Kathy Parker, who originally asked to hold a vigil for the Atlanta shooting victims. Eventually the idea for the vigil turned into Saturday's rally after she received support from local families in the community. 
"The rally is over, but we still have work to do," Chen said. "We are a safe community, but there are still Asian American members who don't feel as safe as before. But, we are afraid that if we stay silent and don't do anything, things could get worse nationally." 
