Funds to tackle Asian American hate crimes

None

Others

2021-04-02

Headnote 
US WILL RECORD DATA ON VIOLENT ATTACKS AND SET UP XENOPHOBHIA TASK FORCE 
THE administration of US president loe Biden on Tuesday (30) announced measures responding to rising anti-Asian violence, including deploying $49.5 million (£36m) from Covid-19 relief funds for US community programmes that help victims. 
White House officials said the Department of Justice is also focusing on a rising number of hate crimes targeting Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. 
"We can't be silent in the face of rising violence against Asian Americans," Biden wrote on Twitter. "These attacks are wrong, un-American, and must stop." 
The measures come after a shooting in Atlanta earlier this month left eight people dead, six of them Asian-American women. 
The shooting stoked fears among those in the Asian-American Pacific Islander community, which has reported a spike in hate crimes since March 2020 when then president Donald Trump began referring to the coronavirus as the "China virus." 
Biden's new steps include $49.5m of pandemic relief funds for "community based, culturally specific services and programmes for survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault" as well as a new task force dedicated to countering xenophobia against Asians in healthcare. 
The Justice Department is also planning new efforts to enforce hate crime laws and report data on racial crimes, the statement said. 
A shooting rampage in March left six women of Asian origin dead and stoked fears among Asian Americans who were already alarmed by a surge in hate crimes during the corona-virus pandemic. 
Three massage parlours around Atlanta were targeted on March 16, before a 21-year-old man suspected of the killings was arrested in south-west Georgia. Police investigating motives have not ruled out the possibility that the attacks were provoked, at least in part, by anti-immigrant or anti-Asian sentiments. 
"Hate can have no safe harbour in America. It must stop. And it is on all of us, all of us together, to make it stop," Biden said in March, after meeting leaders and state lawmakers from the Asian-American and Pacific Islander community following the Atlanta shooting. 
He was accompanied by vice-president Kamala Harris, the first Asian-American holder of the office in US history. 
Harris likened it to the targeting of Muslims after the September 11, 2001, attacks. She said, "Racism is real in America, and it has always been. Xenophobia is real in America, and always has been. Sexism, too." 
"The president and I will not be silent. We will not stand by. We will always speak out against violence, hate crimes and discrimination wherever and whenever it occurs," Harris added. 
Hate crimes against Asian Americans increased by 149 per cent in 2020 in 16 major cities compared with 2019, according to the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism. 
The violent incidents included people being slashed with a box cutter, being set on fire and subjected to verbal harassment, according to testimony at a US congressional hearing on anti-Asian violence convened in March. 
Last week, New York City said it planned to deploy an all-Asian undercover police team and expand community outreach in more than 200 languages to combat a rise in hate crimes against the community. 
"If you are going to commit a hate crime in New York City, we will find you," New York City police commissioner Dermot Shea said while unveiling the two-pronged plan to fight bias crimes. 
"We are not going to tolerate anyone being targeted because of the colour of their skin, the religion they worship, their sexual preference or anything else," Shea added. (Agencies) 
