UC's Pinto partners with Asian advocates student group 

Mitchell, Madeline 

Others

2021-04-11

University of Cincinnati president Neville Pinto is standing with the United Asian Advocates student group against anti-Asian racism, he said in a statement released late Thursday evening. 
The students submitted six demands to the university in late March after they were "Zoom-bombed" during a virtual Asian leadership panel event on Feb. 23. Aashka Raval, co-president of United Asian Advocates, told The Enquirer the group had been in discussions about the demands before that, when an adjunct instructor referred to COVID-19 as "the Chinese virus" in an email to a student. UC did not renew its contract with John Ucker for the spring semester after investigating the incident. 
At least two people unmuted themselves during the February Zoom panel and started "spewing hate" more than 40 minutes into the event, Raval said. One of the disruptors called a member of the United Asian Advocates a "cow" and told her to "go back to India." 
"I want to commend (United Asian Advocates) for speaking out on the rising levels of violence, discrimination and xenophobia directed at Asians and Asian Americans across the nation," Pinto, who was born in Mumbai, India, said. "I stand with them in denouncing the bigoted comments made by unwelcomed visitors to their virtual meeting earlier this semester. Such disturbing examples of hate and racism cannot be tolerated." 
Of the nearly 36,000 undergraduate students enrolled at UC in the 2020-2021 school year, 4.7% identify as Asian and 6.4% identify as international, according to the university's website. 
Pinto met with the student organization on Thursday. In a message to The Enquirer Friday morning, Raval said she thought it was "productive." 
In his Thursday statement, Pinto said he looks forward to partnering with United Asian Advocates and other supporters across campus moving forward. 
"As an academic community, we must strive every single day to create a truly diverse, inclusive, equitable, safe and supportive environment," Pinto said. 
The United Asian Advocates' demands are detailed on their website and summarized below: 
A no-tolerance video or written statement from Pinto addressing xenophobic and racist incidents against Asian identifying people on campus and beyond. 
Implementation of a universitywide bias reporting tool moderated by the office of equity and inclusion, based on the current system through the College of Arts and Sciences. The tool must be highlighted in the syllabus and at student orientations. 
Recruit, hire and retain a staff member with experience supporting Asian-identifying students and organizations for the Office of Ethnic Programs and Services. 
Recruit, hire and retain at least one qualified individual with experience working with Asian mental health care and racial trauma at the UC Counseling and Psychological Services. 
Develop mandatory anti-racism training, similar to the alcohol awareness and sexual harassment training currently required by the university, for incoming university first- year students. 
Include a Multicultural Center in the Next Lives Here expansion plans to highlight, support and empower all marginalized racial, ethnic and cultural identities at UC. 