Miranda Devine: Defunding NYPD triggers sadistic hate crimes

Devine, Miranda

Others

2021-04-28									

Security video shows he gratuitously felled her with a punch to the head as he walked by and then kicked her repeatedly in the face. 
The attack was one of a spate of vicious unprovoked hate crimes against Asian-Americans in the city, almost all committed by black men. 
Pastry chef Yao Pan Ma, the victim of another attack, came to New York from his native China two years ago for a dream job and a better life. 
COVID killed his job and now some thug has almost killed him. The sickening beating on Friday night in Harlem was as sadistic and unprovoked as any we have seen. 
In my building, women of Asian appearance now are afraid to go out to buy groceries and are turning to volunteer group, SafeWalx, which offers walking companions to the Asian community. 
This is no way to live. But it's what happens when foolish politicians demonise, defund and disempower the NYPD, while mollycoddling criminals and racial justice warriors who abuse police for sport. No wonder cops are quitting in droves. 
As anti-police protests escalate, and violent crime spirals out of control, a mass exodus is under way from police forces across the country. 
More than 5300 NYPD officers have retired or quit this year, the New York Post reported on the weekend, a 75 per cent increase from last year. 
They should find easier work as private security for the wealthy woke, who are insulated from the consequences of their own virtue. 
Daily Telegraph - News Feed latest episode 
But never fear, New York City Council Speaker Corey Johnson has a plan to make things worse. 
On the weekend he announced the city's latest tranche of anti-cop legislation. 
Johnson wants former NYPD officers permanently banned from taking other law enforcement jobs if they have been subject to disciplinary action. 
Johnson made his announcement at Reverend Al Sharpton's Harlem headquarters, a few blocks from where Yao Pan Ma now lies in a coma. 
He offered no words of comfort to Ma's wife and no solutions to the violent crime epidemic. 
What does he care? He has an eight-cop security detail. 
NAT - Stay Informed - Social Media 
