New York Charges Man in Three Anti-Asian Attacks; NYPD officials say Joseph Russo allegedly pushed a 64-year-old woman in one incident

Chapman, Ben

Others

2021-04-08			

A Brooklyn man was awaiting arraignment on hate-crime charges in three separate anti-Asian attacks in the past month, law-enforcement officials said Thursday. 
Joseph Russo, 27 years old, was arrested Wednesday in the three incidents, including one on March 5 when he allegedly pushed a 64-year-old Asian-American woman to the ground in the Gravesend section of Brooklyn, New York Police Department officials said. 
Mr. Russo is also accused of pulling the hair of a 32-year-old Asian woman on March 22 outside a building in the Homecrest section of the borough, according to the officials. He also allegedly pushed a 77-year-old Asian man to the ground on April 5 while the man was buying groceries in the Sheepshead Bay section of the borough, the officials said. 
Violence Against Asian-Americans 
Video surveillance shows Mr. Russo committing the March 22 and April 5 attacks, according to the officials. Minor injuries were reported in the incidents, the officials said. 
Mr. Russo was awaiting arraignment in criminal court in Brooklyn on Thursday. He was charged with crimes including assault as a hate crime and aggravated harassment as a hate crime, the officials said. 
An attorney for Mr. Russo couldn't be reached for comment. 
The alleged attacks come amid a rise in complaints of hate crimes against Asian Americans in New York City and other U.S. cities. 
Asians were targeted in 39 New York City hate crimes from Jan. 1 through April 4 of this year, up from 11 in the same period in 2020, according to the NYPD. The NYPD recorded 28 hate crimes against Asians for 2020, up from three in 2019. 
Phil Wong, president of the Chinese American Citizens Alliance of Greater New York, a nonprofit volunteer group, said in an interview Thursday that bias attacks on Asian-Americans and other groups occur regularly in the city. "All New York City residents are entitled to feel safe while walking in the streets," Mr. Wong said. "Because of all these attacks, not just Asians, but, I think, everyone feels unsafe." 
Some of the alleged hate crimes against Asian-Americans in New York City have been motivated by the false belief that Asians are responsible for the Covid-19 pandemic, according to NYPD officials. The NYPD has responded to the crimes by increasing efforts to investigate and prevent bias incidents. 
Last year, the NYPD created an Asian hate crime task force, staffed by detectives of Asian descent, to investigate the crimes. The NYPD recently added resources to combat the incidents, including the use of undercover officers, as more crimes were reported this year. One such undercover officer on Tuesday arrested a woman who began harassing Asian people at a salon in Manhattan, according to police officials. 