Man Charged in Attack on Asian-American Woman in New York; The 65-year-old victim was walking in Manhattan when she was beaten

Chapman, Ben; Paul, Deanna

Others

2021-04-01							

A convicted killer was arraigned Wednesday on multiple counts of assault as a hate crime in connection with an attack on an Asian-American woman in New York City earlier this week. 
Brandon Elliot, 38 years old, told the 65-year-old victim that "she didn't belong here" as she walked to a church near Times Square on Monday, and then he kicked her in the chest and stomped on her head and body, said Manhattan Assistant District Attorney Courtney Razner at an arraignment Wednesday evening. 
Ms. Razner called the attack, which was captured on video, a "heinous, unprovoked hate crime against a 65-year-old Filipino woman." 
The woman suffered a broken pelvis and was taken to a local hospital, Ms. Razner said. The victim couldn't be reached for comment. 
Mr. Elliot was charged with two counts of second-degree assault as a hate crime and one count of first-degree attempted assault as a hate crime. If convicted, he faces up to 25 years in prison. 
Manhattan Criminal Court Judge Paul McDonnell ordered Mr. Elliot held without bail, as a grand jury considers the case. 
Mr. Elliot didn't enter a plea. An attorney for Mr. Elliot said his client wouldn't testify for a grand jury. 
Mr. Elliot is currently on parole in a case in which he fatally stabbed his mother in front of his 5-year-old sister in 2002, according to Ms. Razner. He was 19 at the time. Mr. Elliot was convicted of second-degree murder, according to the officials and state records, and sentenced to 15 years to life in prison. He was released in 2019, records show. 
"Let me be clear: This brave woman belongs here," Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. said in a statement Wednesday. "Asian-American New Yorkers belong here. Everyone belongs here. Attacks against Asian-American New Yorkers are attacks against all New Yorkers." 
Video of the incident showed a security guard watching the attack from the lobby of a luxury apartment building without intervening. The guard has been suspended from his job pending an investigation, the managers of the building said Monday. 
The guard flagged down an NYPD patrol car for help, according to a spokeswoman for Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union, which represents the guard. A police official said patrol officers were the first to respond to the victim. 
Officers arrested Mr. Elliot at his West 40th Street residence without incident just before midnight Tuesday, according to NYPD officials. 
The officials said detectives learned of Mr. Elliot's identity from anonymous tips the NYPD received after he was recognized in a video circulated on social media by police. 
Response to Racism 
The attack follows an uptick in hate crimes and violence against Asians across the country, which have been in the spotlight since the shootings in Atlanta-area spas in which eight people, including six women of Asian descent, were killed. 
The suspect in those attacks was charged in March with eight counts of murder and one count of aggravated assault. According to police officials, the suspect said he targeted the businesses "for providing an outlet for his addiction to sex," but Atlanta Deputy Police Chief Charles Hampton Jr. said on March 18 that investigators were still considering all options, including the possibility the incident was a hate crime. 
New York City last year saw the largest increase in hate crimes against Asians of any U.S. city, according to a study published by the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at California State University, San Bernardino. 
The NYPD recorded 28 hate crimes against Asians for 2020, up from three in 2019. Asians were targeted in 33 such crimes from Jan. 1 through March 28 of this year, up from 11 in the same period in 2020, according to the NYPD. Department officials have said that some of the attacks have been motivated by the false belief that Asians are responsible for the Covid-19 pandemic. 
NYPD officials said the rise in hate crimes against Asians has spurred the department to increase efforts to investigate and prevent such attacks. 
Last year, the NYPD created an Asian hate crime task force, staffed by detectives of Asian descent, to investigate such crimes. As more incidents were reported this year, the NYPD added resources to combat such crimes, including the use of undercover officers as decoys. 
