RESTAURATEUR, BAKER BATTLE ANTI-ASIAN SENTIMENT 

Gigler, Dan

Others

2021-04-29

When she heard that a 65-year-old Filipino immigrant had been attacked in broad daylight on the streets of New York City, Noi Chaisri had had enough. 
The woman fell to the ground as her assailant kicked her repeatedly in the head and said, "You don't belong here." Three men idly watched from a nearby luxury apartment building's lobby, and a security guard there closed the door rather than help during the March 29 incident, according to The New York Times. 
Ms. Chaisri made a sign and put it in the windows of her restaurant, Thai Me Up on the South Side. It said: 
"We are not yellow, we are human being 
"We denounce hate and violence in all forms 
"Anti-Asian just f**k off." 
She knows it's only a sign, but she just couldn't keep it inside any longer. She had to strike back after a year in which anti-Asian sentiment has become an ugly side effect of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
"We should say something, but our culture, and Asian culture, we're not outspoken or vocal," Ms. Chaisri explained. "But this time it's physical - hit that person, kick that person, kill that person. ... It's too much." 
Too much for someone who embodies the American dream. 
Ms. Chaisri came to Pittsburgh from Bangkok in 1996 to study at Point Park University. She's since become an unofficial cultural ambassador for her culture through her cooking. She opened Thai Me Up in a small East Carson Street storefront in 2002. 
"I think when I first opened there were maybe four Thai restaurants" in Pittsburgh, she said. Now there are dozens. 
She eventually moved to a larger space on South 23rd Street and opened Sweet Panda Asian Market, a Thai grocery in the space next door. 
"A lot of my customers love the food but don't know what they're eating," let alone how to make it, she said. 
So, in 2018 she and chef Piyo Boonyarat began offering cooking classes to share their personal stories and teach about the ingredients, processes and heavy intermingling of Indian and Chinese influences that give Thai food its unique complexity. After a long hiatus because of the pandemic, the classes have resumed; the next one is Sunday. 
"I have a lot of customers that are really cool. They're open-minded and we explain about the food, and I love it," she said. 
That's one reality. 
Then there's this one: She's also been harassed numerous times over the years by white and Black Americans and to this day, even in her own restaurant, routinely endures the microaggressions of people who assume she can't speak English or that all Asians are "Chinese." The irony isn't lost on her, as most Americans can only speak English. 
"But we never say anything. I think maybe because of our culture - we don't want to have confrontations or exchange words. Most of the time we take the high road. It doesn't mean we surrender to whatever you call us or label us." 
Since the 1800s, anti-Asian sentiment has crested in periodic waves - during and after World War II, the Vietnam War era and in the 1980s as America's industrial base shrank. 
The attack in New York City came less than two weeks after a mass shooting in greater Atlanta in which eight people were killed, including four Asian women and two Asian men, mostly of Korean descent. There have been scores of high-profile incidents from California to Washington, D.C. The trend has followed the emergence of the COVID-19 virus first in China and was further exacerbated by the incendiary rhetoric of former President Donald Trump. 
"It's been very personally cumulative for me over the past year," Jasmin Cho said. "It's infuriating and so visceral. It's burned into my brain." 
Ms. Cho creates food to help bridge cultural gaps and to help people heal. The Los Angeles native of Korean descent has lived in Pittsburgh for much of the past 19 years. In 2016, the Squirrel Hill resident created Yummyholic, an online bakery that she uses to elevate awareness on social justice issues. She calls it "cookie activism." 
"I use cookies as a medium because it is intentionally disarming and it keeps people's hearts tender," she said. 
She's authored a children's book, and her work has been featured on "CBS This Morning," NPR and the Food Network. In 2018, she hosted a TED talk in Pittsburgh about using baking to tell stories of Asian American history. Still based in Pittsburgh, Ms. Cho is now a master's candidate at New York's prestigious Pratt Institute, where she is developing a program that uses baking as therapy for those who have suffered trauma. 
Some of the first cookies she did during the pandemic depicted the exhausted faces of nurses in Wuhan. They are red, raw, swollen and creased from wearing masks and working nonstop. 
"I was really moved, and I felt that necessity to put those faces out there with a message trying to remind folks that the same people you're demonizing are the faces of the people who are working so hard to fight against this," Ms. Cho said. 
She's been looking at opening a retail bakery locally, but the events of the past year have given her pause. 
"It's made me hypervigilant," she said, fearing that a business owned by an Asian woman might be a target. 
"First I was afraid to go out because of the pandemic, but no mask can hide my Asian features, my black hair and the way that my eyes are shaped. These people who are getting attacked could be my parents. It's been nerve-wracking." 
She relayed a heartbreaking moment from a recent charity event. 
"A week before the Atlanta shootings, I was doing a cookie workshop with Kidsburgh. It's a family-focused cookie event, and one of the young girls is maybe 7 years old, and she asked me: 'How do you battle with being both Asian and a woman?' And then she kind of shyly said, "because I'm Asian, too." 
"That really hit me," she said. 
Ms. Chaisri knows from experience how attitudes can change and that it's not always neat. She relayed a story from 1996 when she first came to the U.S. that would be offensive were it not so comical. Someone asked with a straight face if people still used elephants as vehicles in Thailand. 
"I laughed my butt off and asked them, 'Where did you see this?' They said, 'The King and I.' I said, 'That was set in the 19th century."" 
She also told of an argument with a neighbor when she started her business. 
"She would tell me to go back where I'm from, and she yelled at me with all kinds of words," she said. 
The neighbor later apologized and acknowledged she was in the wrong. "I accept that, no problem." 
But, she said, this new variant strain of ignorance won't be tolerated at her restaurant. 
"I told my staff, don't give them food and don't take their money. I want to make money, but I'm not going to bow down to this kind of people." 
She added, sounding every bit an American, "Forgettaboutit." 
CAPTION: PHOTO: Jasmine Cho: Cookies by Pittsburgh baker and art therapist Jasmine Cho show the weary faces of nurses in Wuhan, China, at the outset of the pandemic. PHOTO: Alexandra Wimley/Post-Gazette photos: Noi Chaisri says some Thai Me Up diners assume she can't speak English. PHOTO: Alexandra Wimley/Post-Gazette: Diners at Thai Me Up on the South Side on April 20. PHOTO: Alexandra Wimley/Post-Gazette: The sign that owner Noi Chaisri posted on the front of Thai Me Up remains on the South Side restaurant. 
