Businesses defending themselves against rise in anti-Asian violence; Many Asian Americans feel authorities are not taking threats seriously

Jan, Tracy

Others

2021-04-01

To San Antonio restaurateur Mike Nguyen, the threat was clear. Alongside the racist graffiti covering the windows of his ramen shop - "Kung flu," "Commie," "Ramen noodle flu" - were these words, spray-painted in red: "Hope u die." 
Shock and hurt turned to rage, then fear. After Nguyen reported the vandalism to local law enforcement and the FBI, police agreed to step up drive-by patrols. But he and his employees would be left largely on their own. 
Since the March 14 incident, the threats to Nguyen's life and business have escalated. Last week, someone wrote "hope it burns down" on the Instagram account for his restaurant, Noodle Tree. An anonymous man phoned the restaurant, reciting Nguyen's home address with a warning: "We're coming for you." 
"The threats are getting more violent, more extreme," said Nguyen, 33. 
Asian American entrepreneurs across the country are combating a sharp rise in racist threats and attacks on their businesses that many feel authorities are not taking seriously, even after last week's shooting rampage targeting three Asian spas in Atlanta left eight people dead. 
Amid heightened fears, business owners have begun hiring their own security, buying guns and cutting their hours of operation as well as advertising, among other costly safety measures that limit their profits - and profile - at a time when businesses are already struggling, according to Asian American chambers of commerce and other business organizations. 
Asian-owned restaurants, salons and shops rapidly lost business at the start of the pandemic because of racial stigma, fuelled by U.S. President Donald Trump's repeated references to the coronavirus as the "Chinese virus" and "Kung flu." Now, community leaders warn that the racism targeting these businesses could hamper the country's economic recovery from the coronavirus-induced recession. 
"What happened in Atlanta is a very extreme example of the threat to human life, and folks have got to understand that as we try to emerge from COVID-19 and try to conduct business, there are other threats to contend with," said Lamar Heystek, president of the San Francisco-based Asian Inc., a non-profit that works with the U.S. Department of Commerce to develop economic opportunity for Asian Americans and other minorities. "It doesn't take an economist to see how that could really dampen business activity and an economic recovery in which Asian American Pacific Islander-owned businesses take part." 
Asian Americans owned more than 10 percent of all U.S. businesses in 2018. These firms earned $863 billion in receipts and employed 5.1 million people, Census Bureau data shows. 
"How is that contribution muted by hate, discrimination and violence?" Heystek said. "We need to appreciate the systemic effect of these incidents that range from graffiti all the way up to death." 
It's not only businesses in urban centres like Chinatowns in San Francisco and New York that have become targets of racial harassment. So have Asian-owned businesses in suburban strip malls and rural America, Heystek said. 
Businesses have been vandalized, robbed and attacked online in racist Yelp reviews. Employees, regardless of their ethnicity, have been blamed for the spread of the coronavirus. 
At Nguyen's two-year-old ramen restaurant, graffiti scrawled on a patio table admonished him to "Go back 2 China." He is of Vietnamese and French descent. 
The racist abuse began after he criticized Republican Texas Gov. Greg Abbott's decision in early March to rescind a statewide mask mandate that was in place to stop the spread of the coronavirus. 
With the perpetrators still at large, Nguyen, who is undergoing cancer treatment, said he's never feared more for his life. The threats come daily now, making him so "paranoid" that he does not allow people to get within 10 feet. 
He had delayed fully reopening indoor dining because of the lack of police presence - and now must budget $5,700 a month on private security for the four days a week his restaurant is open. He temporarily skipped town. And he reluctantly bought a gun. 
"I am personally against guns, but we had to get one just to protect ourselves now," Nguyen said. "I can understand why a lot of Asian Americans don't want to report these things because of retaliation and lack of protection. Will it take for me to get seriously hurt or die for someone to take these threats seriously?" The San Antonio Police Department issued a written statement saying that "officers continue to provide drive-bys to the business. We have additionally contacted others in the area to report any suspicious activity and we will respond accordingly. This case remains actively under investigation and anyone with information is urged to contact police." 
Among the most vulnerable are retail businesses, restaurants and salons whose storefronts open to public sidewalks. Many store owners have kept their doors wide-open to improve ventilation during the pandemic. Not only have they recently begun shutting their doors, they're locking them and removing cultural signage and decor that could make them easy targets for people looking to terrorize Asian businesses, according to business owners and community leaders.