Media quick to focus on race of suspects in US attacks: Unlike in the US, South Korean media put heavy emphasis on the race of attackers, many of whom were African-American The stark contrast in framing highlights differing sensitivities around race that permeate the two cultures, analysts say

Power, John

Others

2021-04-05													

When news broke of the latest violent attack against an Asian-American in New York City on Monday, it ricocheted across the South Korean mediasphere, generating countless articles and news bulletins. 
The brutal attack on a 65-year-old Filipino woman, documented in graphic footage, was the latest example of the rising anti-Asian violence in the US that has captured attention in South Korea, where media outlets have highlighted the Korean background of some of those targeted. 
Four of the eight people killed in last month's Atlanta spa shooting - which prompted widespread soul-searching about anti-Asian bias in the US - were women of Korean descent, while two were ethnic Chinese. 
On Thursday, an article about Brandon Elliot - the suspect in Monday's attack - ranked as the most-read piece on the website of Korean broadcaster JTBC. 
Elliot, a 38-year-old homeless man who was previously convicted of killing his mother, has been charged with three federal hate crimes after allegedly kicking and stomping on his victim in front of a luxury housing estate. 
Yet the flurry of attention in South Korea, one of the world's most ethnically homogenous countries, at the uptick in violence has differed from coverage elsewhere in one notable respect: a heavy focus on the race of the suspects involved, many of whom have been African-American. 
While US news reports did not highlight the race of alleged assailants in many recent attacks, South Korean media outlets have readily identified suspects by race in articles and even headlines. 
In one article, the state-funded Yonhap News Agency mentioned Elliot's race and that of another man who was reported to have attacked an Asian man on the New York subway on Monday no fewer than 26 times. Both Elliot and the suspect in the subway incident - which a witness later said appeared to have actually involved a Hispanic man who used a racial slur - are black. 
The stark contrast in framing highlights differing sensitivities around race that permeate the two cultures, amid discussions in the US and elsewhere about the causes of violence against Asians that have thrown up explanations ranging from the Covid-19 pandemic to white supremacy. 
"Race holds different meanings and different power in different countries - it is just more sensitive and less tolerant to point out one's race in the US due to its long and contentious history of racism," said Gi-Wook Shin, a Korean-American sociology professor at Stanford University. 
For Koreans, ethnicity is so integral to identity that "it seems just a natural thing for Korean media to mention race along with other socio-demographic characteristics", Shin said. 
Michael Hurt, a sociologist of African-American and Korean descent who lives in Seoul, said South Korean society had a history of linking African-Americans with violent crime because of the tensions exposed between black and Korean-American communities in the 1992 Los Angeles riots. 
"Koreans want to know the real deal. Is it safe? And safe in America definitely brings up black faces in the Korean mind," Hurt said. "Do Black people inherently hate Asian people? I don't think that's true, I don't think that's ever been true, but I think there's a perception of that as true in Korea, and how the media has to speak to that is a pretty tricky thing." US media reports have largely avoided mentioning the race of the alleged assailants in recent attacks. Hurt said he did not believe US media outlets were guilty of hypocrisy in being sensitive in covering the race of perpetrators, but acknowledged the possibility of "overcorrection" in some cases. 
"If it's just straightforward white supremacy, white people acting out, that just makes more sense, but I think when you see ... people of colour beating up other people of colour you kind of scratch your head and think I don't really understand what's going on," he said. 