Senate passes bipartisan bill to combat hate crimes against Asian Americans

Brest, Mike

Others

2021-04-22		

The Senate passed legislation to combat anti-Asian hate crimes more forcefully in a nearly unanimous vote. 
The bipartisan bill passed Thursday 94-1, with only Republican Sen. Josh Hawley of Missouri objecting. 
The bill, which Hawaii Sen. Mazie Hirono sponsored, would establish a position within the Justice Department to review and expedite all reports of such hate crimes, and it would expand support for state agencies to respond to such hate crimes. 
MAN ARRESTED FOR NYC HATE CRIME AGAINST ASIAN WOMAN PREVIOUSLY CONVICTED OF KILLING HIS MOTHER 
"By passing this bill, the Senate makes it very clear that hate and discrimination against any group has no place in America," said Sen. Chuck Schumer, the majority leader. "By passing this bill, we say to the Asian American community that their government is paying attention to them, has heard their concerns, and will respond to protect them." 
The bill will go to the House of Representatives and will then head to President Joe Biden's desk. 
Hirono introduced the bill, titled "the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act," following a year in which hate crimes against Asian Americans have risen. 
Hate crimes against Asian Americans spiked 150% throughout 2020, and experts have said that the coronavirus pandemic, which originated in China, could have fueled some of the rise in violence. 
CLICK HERE TO READ MORE FROM THE WASHINGTON EXAMINER 
The bill was introduced five days before a man murdered eight people, six of whom were Asian, in three separate shootings in Atlanta. The alleged shooter denied his acts were racially motivated, rather he said, according to police, that he is a "sex addict" and wanted to "eliminate" the "temptation" of massage parlors. 
Activists claimed the shooter's argument is rooted in anti-Asian hate, given the stereotypes of Asian massage parlors. 
Photo Caption:Sen. Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii, talks to reporters in the basement of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, Friday, Jan. 31, 2020, during the impeachment trial of President Donald Trump on charges of abuse of power and obstruction of Congress. 