Stabbed 'out of nowhere' ; Asian-American man loses kidney in possible hate crime

Thomas, Tracy; Gartland, Michael; Rayman, Graham

Others

2021-02-27

An Asian man stabbed near a Manhattan courthouse needed to have a kidney surgically removed after the
random attack that is now being considered a hate crime, police sources said.
Cops initially said there was no indication of bias in the 6:20 p.m. Thursday stabbing, but later upgraded
charges against Salman Muflihi, 23, to attempted murder as a hate crime and assault as a hate crime.
The victim's wife does not believe hate was the main reason for the crime.
"He's obviously mentally ill," she told the Daily News on Friday evening at the loft building where the couple
lives in Chinatown.
"We are concerned that someone so mentally ill is walking around the city," said the wife, who asked that her
name not be used. "Why wasn't he evaluated before this?"
Muflihi, from Brooklyn, said nothing to the 36-year-old victim as he stabbed him from behind with the 8-inch
blade by the Daniel Patrick Moynihan U.S. Courthouse.
Moments later he confessed his crime to security outside the Manhattan District Attorney's Office on Hogan
Place, saying, "I just stabbed someone. Where are the police at?" said sources.
Muflihi told cops that he lunged because he didn't like the way the victim looked at him.
Investigators believe he was emotionally disturbed, sources said.
"How could they have exchanged looks?" the victim's wife asked. "It was too dark. He came up from behind and
said nothing."
The victim - who police said was on his way home - stumbled and dropped to the sidewalk. Two passersby called
911 and medics rushed him to Bellevue Hospital.
His wife said his condition was stable. The knife damaged vital organs including his liver and his right kidney,
which had to be removed in surgery, sources said.
"This could happen to any of us. It could happen to you, your family, anyone," the victim's wife said. "He's a
good man. He's an innocent person who was randomly attacked."
Mayor de Blasio condemned the attack during a Friday press briefing, pointing to a spike in hate crimes against
Asian-Americans.
"Even as we're sounding the alarm and calling for people to band together to stop hate, we had a horrible
incident yesterday, a horrible act of violence against an Asian-American man - out of nowhere, just pure
hatred," de Blasio said.
"The suspect has been apprehended. We're hoping and praying for this man as he fights for his life," he added.
Police have recorded 28 incidents of "COVID-related" hate crimes against Asians since the start of the pandemic
- a sharp increase from the pre-pandemic period.
Muflihi - who was also charged with carrying a fake driver's license and illegal possession of a weapon - was
awaiting arraignment in Manhattan Criminal Court.
He was previously arrested on Jan. 12 for punching a 28-year-old Asian man in the back of the head and
throwing him to the ground at a Sunset Park, Brooklyn grocery store.
