Rally vs. attacks on Asians

Parnell, Wes; Goldiner, Dave

Others

2021-02-28

A crowd of about 200 New Yorkers gathered Saturday in Foley Square to denounce a wave of anti-Asian violence
that they say is fueled by racism and ignorance about the COVID-19 pandemic.
The throng heard community leaders and a parade of top political leaders vow to end the shocking spat of
attacks and seemingly unending torment of slurs that have dramatically worsened during the pandemic.
"We are fighting a global pandemic but we are also fighting racism. ... We are getting spat on, shoved, punched,
slashed, stabbed," said Jo-Ann Yoo of the Asian American Federation. "Right now Asian-Americans are scared,
we are outraged, and we are devastated."
Mayoral candidate Andrew Yang, one of the nation's best-known Asian politicians, attended the rally but was not
given a speaking spot and left without speaking to reporters.
The crowd gave a rousing reception to Noel Quintana, 61, a Filipino-American who was slashed in the face on
the L train last week. "A lot of Asian-Americans [are] being attacked everywhere so I just want [people] to know
that this is happening to us," he said. "Almost every day there are attacks and I don't understand why."
Many New Yorkers were stunned to see a viral video of an Asian-American woman being slammed to the
sidewalk last week in an unprovoked attack in Flushing, Queens.
Rep. Grace Meng (D-Queens) said the attacks are the tip of an iceberg of hate crimes, many of which go
unreported.
She vowed that Asian-Americans would no longer settle for being "invisible" victims.
"Too many people who are afraid to leave their homes," said Meng, whose district includes Flushing, "not just
because of the virus, but because of bigotry."
Asian-American leaders say they are regularly targeted for verbal and physical abuse by people who blame them
for the pandemic.
Many blame the racist violence in part on former President Donald Trump, who often called COVID-19 the "China
virus" or other racist terms because it was first identified in China.
Mayor de Blasio, Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) and state Attorney General Letitia James all vowed to crack down
on anti-Asian violence in New York, saying the city needs to protect people targeted by hatred.
