New York City Police Mobilize Against Rise in Hate Crimes Targeting Asians; NYPD officers are increasing patrols and investigations, as hate crimes against Asian-Americans have risen sharply during the pandemic

Chapman, Ben

Others

2021-02-23

NYPD Deputy Inspector Stewart Loo, commanding officer of the Asian Hate Crime Task Force. PHOTO: Jose A. Alvarado Jr. for The Wall Street Journal
New York City is increasing police patrols and investigations to fight a rise in hate crimes targeting Asian people amid the coronavirus pandemic, Mayor Bill de Blasio said Tuesday.
Mr. de Blasio, a Democrat, said at a briefing that police would step up investigations and patrols of subway stations. There were 28 coronavirus-related hate crimes committed against Asian
people in New York City in 2020, compared with three such hate crimes in 2019, according to New York Police Department figures.
There have been two hate crimes against Asian residents in New York City so far this year, according to the NYPD, up from zero of such crimes during the same period last year.
The most recent incident occurred on Feb. 15, according to police officials, when an unknown assailant allegedly used hate speech against an Asian man in Manhattan's Harlem neighborhood
before punching him and stealing his phone.
Video of a Feb. 16 attack on an older Asian woman in the Flushing section of Queens went viral on social media, prompting actress Olivia Munn to share the incident on Twitter, leading to an
arrest, according to NYPD officials.
Rise in Hate Crimes
* Violence Against Asian-Americans Raises Concern in Bay Area (Feb .12)
That incident, which hasn't been determined to be a hate crime by police, was widely cited by politicians and community leaders who have called on the city to step up its efforts to protect Asian
residents.
Mr. de Blasio said Tuesday the rise in hate crimes against Asian residents was driven by biases held by individuals who blame Chinese and other Asian people for Covid-19.
"From the very beginning, even before we had a single case in New York City, Asian American communities were suffering discrimination. Asian-American businesses saw their customers no
longer come," Mr. de Blasio said. "It's been a very tough time for Asian communities."
Mr. de Blasio said the NYPD's Asian Hate Crime Task Force would be ramping up investigations in response to the rise in hate crimes. Formed in October, the task force is the first-ever group
within the NYPD dedicated to investigating crimes targeting a single race.
Additionally, Mr. de Blasio said members of his Office for the Prevention of Hate Crimes would be meeting with community leaders this week to discuss additional measures city officials can take
to address the issue.
NYPD Deputy Inspector Stewart Loo, who is commanding officer of the Asian Hate Crime Task Force, said at Tuesday's briefing that the group comprised 25 detectives of Asian backgrounds who
speak 11 Asian languages. The group's familiarity with the city's Asian communities is key to effective investigation, Mr. Loo said.
"We are here to guarantee there's a strong appropriate response to the hate that's infecting our city," said Mr. Loo. "The task force consists of members that come from the community to serve
the community."
Mr. Loo said that police have made arrests in 18 of the 28 hate crimes that occurred against Asian residents in 2020 and one arrest in the two cases that have occurred so far this year. Mr. Loo
said the character of the crimes that were committed varied, but in each case the perpetrator made a statement regarding the coronavirus or indicating bias against Asians.
