City takes aim at hate vs. Asians

Shahrigian, Shant

Others

2021-02-24

City leaders are boosting efforts to fight hate crimes that have targeted Asian New Yorkers, in particular, since
the start of the coronavirus outbreak.
The recent deployment of extra NYPD officers to the subways will focus in part on preventing hate crimes, while
Mayor de Blasio promised meetings with community leaders this week to hear what else the city can do.
"The NYPD is watching to protect folks and stop these horrible actions," Hizzoner said at a Tuesday news
conference, after a series of alarming subway incidents prompted the NYPD to send 500 extra cops to stations
and trains this month.
The recent crime streak includes unprovoked attacks on two Asian senior citizens on subways within a 24-hour
span on Feb. 16.

"These racist attacks have been outrageous, unconscionable, disgusting and it must end," Rep. Grace Meng (D-
Queens) said at the news conference.

Meng and de Blasio partially blamed former President Donald Trump for fomenting hate through racist language
about coronavirus.
"Although Donald Trump is no longer in office, his past anti-Asian rhetoric and use of terms like 'Chinese virus'
[and] 'kung flu' continues to threaten the safety of our community in New York and around the country," Meng said.
While police have logged 28 known incidents of "COVID-related" hate crimes against Asians and made busts in
18 of those cases since the start of the pandemic, the commanding officer of the NYPD's Asian Hate Crimes Task
Force acknowledged the number of incidents is likely higher.
"These numbers are definitely underreported," said the commander, Deputy Inspector Stewart Loo, explaining
that the NYPD categorizes hate crimes as "COVID-related" only if the attacker makes statements related to the
virus.
De Blasio and Meng urged New Yorkers to speak out if they see hate crimes.
"So many Asian-Americans literally live in fear and are afraid to leave their homes because they don't know
what might happen to them," the congresswoman said.
