U.S. News: U.S. Watch

None

Others

2021-02-27

JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
United Airlines Pays
To Settle Mail Case
United Airlines Holdings Inc. agreed to pay more than $49 million to settle criminal charges and civil claims
related to the transportation of international mail, the Justice Department said Friday.
United was accused of submitting false delivery-scan data between 2012 and 2015 to make it appear that the
airline and its partners had transported mail in a timely manner to the intended recipient, the Justice
Department said. Under the agreements, United was entitled to full payment when scans were provided and the
mail was timely delivered, the agency said.
The Justice Department said United admitted to concealing problems related to scanning and mail movements
that, if known, would have subjected the carrier to financial penalties under the international contracts.
United said it was "glad to have remedied these procedures" and called the U.S. Postal Service a valued
customer.
United agreed to pay about $17.3 million in criminal penalties and $32.2 million under a false claims settlement, the department said.
-- Michael Dabaie
---
NEW YORK
Schools Chancellor
Will Leave Post
New York City Schools Chancellor Richard Carranza will leave his post in March as education officials work to
reopen some public schools that have remained closed for most of the past year because of the Covid-19
pandemic.
Meisha Porter, a longtime city Education Department official and the executive superintendent of Bronx schools,
will succeed Mr. Carranza, Mayor Bill de Blasio's office said Friday. Ms. Porter, 47 years old, will be the first Black
woman to serve in the role. She will succeed Mr. Carranza on March 15, city officials said.
Mr. Carranza said that he was proud of what he has accomplished in his time serving as the chief of the nation's
largest school district.
"While the work is never done, we have created a lot of important change together," he said.
He added that in the past year he has lost 11 family members and close friends and needed time to grieve.
Mr. Carranza tried to debunk speculation that his departure stemmed from tensions between the chancellor and
the mayor over decisions about reopening and policies on admission to selective programs.
He said he appreciated that the mayor "has allowed all of us at the table to have differing views and to argue
those views and to advocate those views and come to a consensus."
Mr. de Blasio, a Democrat, leaves office on Dec. 31 because of term limits.
-- Katie Honan
---
NEW YORK
Hate Crime Alleged
in Man's Stabbing
A Brooklyn man was charged with attempted murder as a hate crime after allegedly stabbing an Asian-American
man in the back in an unprovoked attack in Manhattan's Chinatown, New York Police Department officials said
Friday.
The suspect, Salman Muflihi, allegedly approached a 36-year-old man from behind on Thursday and stabbed
him, police officials say. The victim, who wasn't identified by police, was listed in stable condition at Bellevue
hospital Friday. Mr. Muflihi may have been suffering from psychological distress at the time of the attack,
according to the officials.
The attack comes during a rise in violence in the city and after a string of unprovoked assaults on Asian-American residents, including incidents that police say were motivated by racial bias.
Mr. Muflihi was initially charged with attempted criminally negligent homicide, the officials said, but
subsequent investigation resulted in a reclassification of his alleged actions as a hate crime.
New York City saw 468 homicides in 2020, up nearly 47% from 2019.
-- Ben Chapman
