Olivia raps qnS. 'hate'; Calls for web posse after pal's mom hit in Flushing by man yelling Asian slurs

Annese, John

Others

2021-02-18

Actress and anti-hate crime activist Olivia Munn is speaking out after her friend's mom was assaulted outside a
Queens bakery - posting two photos of the alleged attacker on Twitter on Wednesday.
"My friend's mom is a 5'3" 50+ Chinese woman and she was attacked by this guy in Flushing, NY yesterday on
Main St and Roosevelt between 2-4pm. She left the hospital with 10 stitches in her head," the "X-Men:
Apocalypse" and "The Newsroom" actress wrote.
"We're gonna find this guy. Queens, Internet, please... do your s--."
Police have not yet confirmed the photos were of the suspect.
Cops said the 52-year-old victim was standing on line outside a bakery Tuesday when a man in a red jacket and
gray pants started arguing with her, then pushed her. The victim hit her head against an object and the man
fled.
Medics took the victim to New York-Presbyterian Hospital Queens. The attacker remained on the loose as police
continued to investigate, including whether the attack would be considered a hate crime.
In a Facebook post Tuesday night, the victim's daughter Maggie Kayla Cheng called the assault a hate crime.
"I am heart broken and devastated. This ... was yelling out racial slurs, walks into my mom and shoved my
mother on Main street and Roosevelt Avenue in Flushing, Queens today," she wrote. "He shoved her with such
force that she hit her head on the concrete and passed out on the floor."
Munn - whose mother is Chinese and whose father is white - has spoken out against anti-Asian hate crimes. The
former "Attack of the Show!" co-host posted a statement on her Instagram account last week railing against the
spike in bias attacks against Asian-Americans during the COVID-19 pandemic.
"The racist, verbal and physical assaults have left my community fearful to step outside," she wrote, adding: "To
simply exist as a minority in this country is seen as a protest to some. We need help amplifying the outrage. We
need help to feel safe in our country. We need help to be safe in our country.
