Cops bust suspect in bakery beatdown ; Munn's plea to aid friend helps cops nab Qns. man

Thomas, Tracy

Others

2021-02-19

Police have arrested a suspect in the assault of a Asian woman in Queens that drew the ire of actress and anti-hate
crime activist Olivia Munn, officials said.
Working off a tip, Patrick Mateo was picked up at his Queens home early Thursday and charged with assault and
harassment for shoving the 52-year-old woman - the mother of Munn's friend - during an argument in a bakery at Main
St. and Roosevelt Ave. in Flushing on Tuesday.
The woman struck her head against a newspaper stand, suffering a deep cut to her head, cops said.
Mateo, 47, was not hit with hate-crime charges. Cops found no evidence that he made any anti-Asian statements
during the attack, officials said. He lives a few blocks from the baker.
The "X-Men: Apocalypse" star posted two surveillance images of the attacker on Twitter Wednesday as she made a
social media plea to identify the attacker.
"My friend's mom is a 5 3 50+ Chinese woman and she was attacked by this guy . . . She left the hospital with 10
stitches in her head," "The Newsroom" actress wrote.
Medics took the victim to New York-Presbyterian Hospital on Tuesdayens for treatment.
"Yesterday, this incident went viral on social media & the community came through in response, sending a lot of good
information to our @NYPDTips hotline," the NYPD tweeted. "Today, our @NYPDDetectives took that information & apprehended the suspect. Thank you to everyone who lent a hand. #OneNY"
In a Facebook post Tuesday night, the victim's daughter Maggie Kayla Cheng claimed the assault was a hate crime.
"I am heart broken and devastated. This ... was yelling out racial slurs, walks into my mom and shoved my mother,"
she wrote. "He shoved her with such force that she hit her head on the concrete and passed out on the floor."
Munn - whose mother is Chinese and father is white - has spoken out against anti-Asian hate crimes. The former
"Attack of the Show!" co-host posted a statement on her Instagram account last week railing against the spike in bias
attacks against Asian-Americans during the COVID-19 pandemic.
"The racist, verbal and physical assaults have left my community fearful to step outside," she wrote, adding: "To simply
exist as a minority in this country is seen as a protest to some. We need help amplifying the outrage. We need help to
feel safe in our country. We need help to be safe in our country.
