Violence Against Asian-Americans Raises Concern in Bay Area; Police in Oakland, Calif., recently arrested a man suspected in a string of assaults in that city's Chinatown

Lazo, Alejandro

Others

2021-02-12

SAN FRANCISCO—Political leaders in the San Francisco Bay Area are forming task forces and speaking out against anti-Asian violence after a spate of recent incidents that include
two assaults against elderly men that were captured on video.
In Oakland, Calif., police on Feb. 5 arrested a man suspected in a string of assaults in that city's Chinatown, including allegedly pushing a 91-year-old man to the ground.
Yahya Muslim, 28, was arraigned on Tuesday and is due to return for a plea hearing on March 2 in Alameda County Superior Court. Brendon Woods, the county public defender whose
office is representing the suspect, said Mr. Muslim has a history of mental illness and substance abuse and there is no evidence of bias against Asian-Americans in the case.
The assaults spurred Alameda County District Attorney Nancy O'Malley to create a special response unit that she said would include members who speak Cantonese and Mandarin
that will aim to build trust and engagement with crime victims.
"Since the onset of Covid-19 we have seen an uptick in crime against Asian Americans," Ms. O'Malley said.
In San Francisco, video of a Jan. 28 attack on Vicha Ratanapakdee, an 84-year-old man originally from Thailand, has spurred fear among elderly Asian-Americans in the city, local
activists said. Mr. Ratanapakdee was on a morning walk in a residential enclave when he was knocked to the ground by a man who ran into him. Mr. Ratanapakdee died two days later
at a local hospital.
The authorities have charged Antoine Watson, 19, with murder and elder abuse.
Sliman Nawabi, a public defender representing Mr. Watson, said his client didn't intend to kill Mr. Ratanapakdee and likely wasn't aware of the man's race or age. Mr. Watson pleaded
not guilty to the charges.
"I know it's gotten a lot of attention...because there's been other incidents in the Bay Area, and nationally, targeting Asian-Americans," Mr. Nawabi said. "But this case here is not
motivated by Mr. Ratanapakdee's race or his age."
According to the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at California State University, San Bernardino, attacks on people of Asian descent in the U.S. have been on the rise since
the start of the pandemic last year. In March and April, there were more anti-Asian hate crimes in various cities than the previous totals for the full year of 2019, said Brian Levin, a
professor of criminal justice and director of the center.
New York City had a record year of hate crimes against Asians in 2020, according to preliminary data, while in Los Angeles and San Jose, such crimes more than doubled from 2019,
according to preliminary data analyzed by Dr. Levin. The attacks range from people being spat on to assaults.
The New York Police Department formed this past fall an Asian Hate Crime Task Force , its first-ever task force dedicated to investigating crimes targeting a single race.
