Xiaojie Tan dreamed of traveling the world and celebrating her 50th birthday with her daughter. Then the Atlanta shooter ended her life.

Hughes, Trevor; Ruiz-Goriena, Romina; Kelly, Cara; Clark, Sirena

USA Today

2021-03-19

ATLANTA — On her 50th birthday Xiaojie Tan would have gathered with her only child for a slice of strawberry fresh cream cake her favorite.
The mother and daughter were best friends.
But the day before Tan would have celebrated her many accomplishments – making a life in the United States building a family launching two businesses – a gunman broke into her business and opened fire killing her and three others in a shooting rampage. He went on to kill another four people at two other spas.
Instead Jami Webb 29 and her father Michael Webb 64 spent Tan’s birthday planning her funeral at a Catholic church.
“She did everything for me and for the family. She provided everything. She worked every day 12 hours a day so that me and our family would have a better life” Jami Webb said of her mother.
Like Tan most of the victims of the shooting attacks were of Asian descent drawing new attention to an ongoing wave of hate crimes against Asian Americans across the country fueled by racism and xenophobia amid the COVID-19 outbreak and anti-China rhetoric expressed by many conservative leaders including former President Donald Trump.
As dusk fell Thursday night father daughter and her fiancé stood outside Young's Asian Massage in Acworth watching a small candlelight vigil honoring the dead.
No one there knew who they were and neither Webb sought any attention or recognition.
Some called her by her Chinese name Xiaojie or Jay for short. Others knew her by her American name Emily.
In China it is customary to put the family name before the given name. Tan's name in Chinese transliterated to Tan Xiao Jie which means pure or honest. However because Western countries use the surname last her legal name in the United States is Xiaojie Tan.
"She was full of smiles and laughter. She was just a pleasure to be around” said Michael Webb an American businessman who first met Tan while traveling for work in China in the early 2000s.
He angrily rejected speculation Tan's spa was providing sex services.
"You're coming here to get a massage. All these girls that have worked for her over the years are working for her on their own free will" he said. "They’re here for a better life. They’re diligent and work hard and all the money they make is going toward a better life for their family.”
Hynson said he last saw Tan over the weekend when he stopped by the spa to chat.
“I can’t put any reasoning behind why anyone would want to do something horrible to such nice people" he said. "I can’t wrap my head around it. I just can’t believe she’s gone.”
Atlanta spa shootings: Illicit reviews raise red flags that shooter targeted vulnerable women
Saying goodbye to a mother and best friend
Jami Webb said her mother was obsessed with the idea of traveling and devoured travel stories from her customers adding new destinations to her running list whenever they came back from a trip: Alaska. Europe. Sweden.
Whenever a customer walked in Tan always had the same question: “where have you traveled?”
If it was a new location or country she would add it to her retirement wish list.
Jami Webb said she was proud of her mother and the business she had built. “She loved to make friends with all her customers" she said.
Earlier that day Jami Webb went to her mothers' house and found drawers full of new clothes.
“They still had all the tags on" Jami Webb said the petals blowing from flowering Bradford pear trees sticking to her teary eyes. "She didn’t even have a chance to wear them.”
Meanwhile in China family members gathered to celebrate what should have been Tan's 50th birthday. 
Jami said her aunt her mother's sister Tan Mei had heart problems and needed to be put on oxygen when she found out about the killings.
"My sister was a very kind and caring person. She was always thinking about her family she cared very much for her friends" Tan Mei told USA TODAY Friday sobbing over the phone from Nanning China. 
She said Tan would call every day to speak to her family in China while on her way to work. She said could not fathom why someone would do such a senseless thing to her sister. The family couldn't bring themselves to tell Tan's mother that her daughter was dead. Instead the family cut a cake and called Jami Webb to ask about the guest of honor. "She kept asking to talk to my mom. We told my grandma that my mom lost her phone and couldn't answer" Jami Webb said.