The risk of invisibility

Marco della Cava

USA Today

2020-12-14

SAN FRANCISCO – Mandy Rong was terrified her 12-year-old daughter had COVID-19. It was 2 a.m. and the young girl was hours into a fierce fever and a racking cough.

"Mommy, why are my eyes on fire?" asked Amy Rong. 

The mother and daughter, along with Rong's parents, live in an 80-square-foot windowless single-room-occupancy Chinatown building that is a home of last resort for many impoverished Asian immigrants. Hallways are cramped; bathrooms and kitchens are communal. A ripe setting for the spread of the highly contagious novel coronavirus.

That early March night felt endless. Rong, 42, repeatedly touched Amy's forehead, wondering if her child would die in the small loft that the two shared. Down below, her father slept on the floor while her mother took the lone sofa bed.

In the morning, the fever had vanished, only to return a week later. Once again, the family endured a restless night.

Getting tested didn't seem like an option for the Rongs. The rumor was that the tests were expensive. Rong also feared the reaction from neighbors. "If you test positive, everyone would be scared of you," she said. "Everyone would think you are the devil."

It is easy to mistake San Francisco for a thriving Asian American haven. The city, which is its own county, boasts a bustling Chinatown, as well as a popular Japantown. Native Hawaiians, Pacific Islanders, Vietnamese, Indians and Filipinos also have made their homes here. All told, Asians in San Francisco represent upward of 20 countries.

But many Asian American immigrants in the county lead a fragile existence rendered even more precarious with the arrival of COVID-19. So far, 38% of the 167 COVID-19 deaths reported by the San Francisco Department of Public Health are Asian American residents, the most of any ethnicity.

Experts also are concerned that positivity rates among Asian Americans in San Francisco could be far higher than the 13.5% reported, a byproduct of the decades-in-the-making model minority myth, which characterizes this ethnic group as financially successful, physically healthy and upwardly mobile. This belief has caused segments of the Asian American community to long be overlooked when it comes to social services for housing, employment and health.

San Francisco is one of the few places in the nation tracking data on Asian Americans and COVID-19 deaths at a time when officials don't know the ethnicity of the person affected in nearly half of the nation's 16 million coronavirus cases. About 17 million Americans are of Asian descent, or 5.6% of the population.

In many cases, Asian Americans in this city have received imprecise or no information in their native language about testing, safety tips, housing, and other critical care services during the pandemic. At the same time, the community is struggling with inadequate access to comprehensive health care, the need to keep front-line employment, and growing incidents of anti-Asian hate crimes.

"This model minority thing, that's not us," said Judy Young of the Southeast Asian Development Center, a San Francisco nonprofit that helps area residents from Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia.

"There is the language barrier, and our community is small," Young said. "So the city doesn't think we have any problems, when we do."

That risk of invisibility is only heightened by the pandemic. Since city health officials do not break down COVID-19 statistics beyond "Asian American," many advocates for the city's various groups said they are left to speculate about coronavirus infection and death rates within their individual communities.

"There's this feeling that there's excess death out there," said Jeffrey Caballero of the nonprofit Association of Asian Pacific Community Health Organizations. "That high mortality rate among Asian Americans means either there isn't enough testing or people are waiting far too long to get care."

What is the model minority myth?

For many Asian Americans in San Francisco, the high rate of COVID-19 deaths is directly linked to the corrosive and distorting effects of the model minority myth, said Dr. Tung Nguyen, a University of California, San Francisco professor of medicine.

Nguyen co-wrote a report in May by the Asian American Research Center on Health that called attention to the fact that 50% of San Francisco's 31 COVID-19 deaths at that time were among Asian Americans, disproportionately high considering they make up just over a third of the population.

To be sure, the fortunes and contributions of many Asian Americans have skyrocketed in past decades. The median annual income of households headed by the nation's 22 million Asian Americans is $73,060, compared with $53,600 for all U.S. households, according to the Pew Research Center.

A closer look at San Francisco's two dozen Asian ethnicities reveals many groups within this broad categorization are struggling financially and remain outside the mainstream. About 43% are non-English speakers, according to a USA TODAY analysis of U.S. census data. About a third of San Franciscans are foreign-born, and 13% are not U.S. citizens.

"With Asian Americans, the average always is pulled way up by those doing very well, which means you miss the groups who clearly are not," said Margaret Simms, a nonresident fellow with The Urban Institute in Washington, D.C., who specializes in race and labor economics.

Discrimination also is keeping some Asian Americans from getting tested for COVID-19. The website Stop AAPI Hate, the acronym for Asian American Pacific Islander, has logged more than 2,500 incidents of discrimination across the U.S. since mid-March, from verbal assaults to acts of physical violence.

Decades of racist policies

Chinese citizens began passing through San Francisco's then bridgeless Golden Gate en masse during the Gold Rush of 1849. By the late 1800s, the Chinese were not just vilified but outright barred from the country, with few exceptions, by the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882. White officials charged they were taking jobs from other Americans, despite having been integral to the Gold Rush's boom and the construction of the Transcontinental Railroad.

At the height of World War II, Japanese Americans around the country were rounded up and sent to internment camps, feared as the traitorous "yellow peril" after years of citizenship. Despite painful and humiliating treatment at the hands of the U.S. government, many Asians resolved to ingrain themselves in the society at large with an image of themselves as patriotic, hardworking Americans.

The model minority image gained momentum during the civil rights movement of the 1960s. Asian American success stories were highlighted by white U.S. officials both as a way of signaling to other nations, namely the Soviet Union, that America was not racist, but also to shame other ethnic groups, notably Black Americans.

Then came the Vietnam War, a quagmire that resulted in a U.S.-sponsored evacuation of 125,000 refugees followed by countless others who escaped in rickety boats. Many landed in San Francisco.

California Assembly member David Chiu, a Democrat who represents the eastern half of San Francisco and chairs the California Asian & Pacific Islander Legislative Caucus, said lawmakers must recognize that Asian Americans are a loosely linked group of immigrants with distinct challenges and needs.

"The attention being paid to the disparities endured during the pandemic by Black and Latinos is important, but our issue hasn't gotten the attention it deserves," he said.

A COVID-19 information gap

Asian American communities in San Francisco speak a range of languages including Mandarin, Cantonese, Japanese, Korean, Tagalog, Laotian, Samoan, Tongan, Vietnamese, and Hindi. The city's website notes that COVID-19 information is available in English, Chinese, Filipino, and Spanish.

Efforts by city health officials to inform Asian residents about COVID-19 safety precautions and testing in their native languages have sometimes resulted in confusing or alienating translations. For example, information about pop-up virus testing sites sometimes can come across as demands, while in other cases the language is just plain confusing.

No end in sight

Rong never found out whether her daughter had COVID-19. But her days remain filled with dread. For the past few months, the family has had little money for food or rent.

Rong doesn't know anyone who has contracted the virus. For her neighbors in the building, getting tested remains a common fear.

Mostly, Rong waits for the day when the pandemic is over. For a day when it will feel safe to venture outside. For a day when her American dream can resume.

