We're Americans not 'others' to abuse.

Clayton Park

USA Today

2021-03-18

The Atlanta-area shootings where eight people were killed including six women of Asian descent hit close to home for me. At least four victims were of Korean origin. While I was born in this country and I'm proud to be an American I am half Korean and half Japanese.
It is unclear whether the shooting victims were targeted because of their race. Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said Wednesday that the suspect Robert Aaron Long 21 of Woodstock Georgia claimed that his actions weren't racially motivated and that he had a sexual addiction. 
I find it unsettling nevertheless because it comes at a time when anti-Asian sentiment and violence are on the rise in our country. Some blame people who look like me of being responsible for the so-called China virus more accurately known as the novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19. 
In the early months of the pandemic last year one woman on Facebook commenting on an article I wrote as business editor of The Daytona Beach News-Journal told me that I was a nothing who should go back to China. 
And I am not the only one. 
I recently interviewed a Daytona Beach Florida area family that runs a Korean restaurant. They told me they were being similarly harassed on nearly a daily basis both by people showing up in person to place orders and then refusing to pay for them as well as those calling them on the phone during their busy dinner rush.
'I'm afraid'
SaeHee Martin who owns the Chop Chop Korean Restaurant in South Daytona told me on Wednesday that she was frightened to learn about the Atlanta-area spa shootings: "I'm afraid. I don't know what some crazy people are going to do." 
It doesn't help that the shooter told police that he intended to drive to Florida to kill more people at spas. 
When I read the national news reports about anti-Asian hate crimes most seem to be happening in large cities that have a bigger percentage of Asian Americans. In King County Washington for example where I was born and raised those of Asian heritage account for nearly 20% of the population according to the latest Census Bureau statistics.
Here in Volusia County where Daytona Beach is located Asians account for 2% of the population. 
The Atlanta-area attacks show that anti-Asian hate crimes if in fact that's what motivated the shooter can also happen in communities where there are fewer Asians. 
In Cherokee County Georgia where the first of the three spa shootings occurred Asians account for 2.1% of the population. 
Even some people I consider friends persist in referring to COVID-19 as the China virus. When I confront them about it I am told that's where it started. True but to blame all Asians or even all Chinese for the pandemic is flat out wrong. It suggests that we are all alike as if we were the Borg from "Star Trek." 
Growing up in a mostly white neighborhood in Seattle I was constantly told Asians are good in math (not true for me) and not so good in English or when it came to matters involving creativity and innovation. 
I am not a stereotype
For the record I double majored in English Lit and Journalism with a minor in art. I also played for many years in rock bands and won a local songwriter contest in the Daytona Beach area a few years ago. Conversely I am not skilled in kung fu or any of the martial arts and I am not particularly adept at using chopsticks although I try. 
Alike we Asian Americans are not. 
And as far as what country I pledge my allegiance to I am as proud as any of you to be an American. 
I have an uncle who fought in World War II in not against the United States Army as a member of the highly decorated 442nd infantry unit made up of Japanese Americans. He fought the Germans while one of his brothers was interned in a relocation camp for those of Japanese descent in California. 
My wife and I have three sons all of whom have served in the U.S. military including one still in the Air Force. 
Stop viewing us as "others." We are Americans and we are human beings who don't deserve to be vilified or as in the apparent case of the Atlanta spa shooter objectified. 
Much less targeted. 
Clayton Park is business editor of The Daytona Beach News-Journal.