Lawmakers to introduce anti-hate crime legislation amid rise in anti-Asian hate and violence

Wu, Nicholas

USA Today

2021-03-11

WASHINGTON – It has been over a year since Asian American lawmakers first sounded the alarm on a potential rise in anti-Asian hate and violence amid the COVID-19 pandemic.

Since then, Stop AAPI Hate, which tracks discrimination against Asian and Pacific Island Americans, said it received more than 3,000 firsthand accounts of anti-Asian American harassment or attacks compared to roughly 100 incidents annually in previous years.

In the beginning, Rep. Grace Meng, D-N.Y., said it was "important" to condemn the hate incidents, even if it was "symbolic." But as the incidents continued to rise, "it's time to take it to the next level to make sure that we are using all the tools in our toolbox to help curb this problem," she said.

That includes legislation.

Democratic lawmakers said they would introduce a new bill addressing a rise in hate incidents directed at Asian Americans amid the coronavirus pandemic. The bill, a revised version of legislation introduced but not passed in the last Congress, would create a new position at the Department of Justice to facilitate the review of hate crimes and provide oversight of hate crimes related to COVID-19.

Meng, the lead sponsor of the legislation in the House, told USA TODAY the bill would make it "easier for us to have a more complete and accurate picture" of hate crimes and incidents.

Among other provisions, it would issue guidance for state and local law enforcement agencies to establish their own hate crime reporting systems and education campaigns about hate crimes, provided in multiple languages.

More: Hate crimes against Asian Americans are on the rise. Here's what activists, lawmakers and police are doing to stop the violence

More: 'Stop killing us': Attacks on Asian Americans highlight rise in hate incidents amid COVID-19

"We want to continue to not only raise awareness, but also to try to help find real long-term solutions," Meng said.

Sen. Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii, is spearheading the Senate's version of the legislation.

"Prosecution is really important, but I think it's also important for leaders to say ... this is unacceptable and to condemn this kind of targeting of (Asian American Pacific Islanders) and in fact the targeting of any minority group to this kind of assaults and attacks," she said.

She told USA TODAY the bill would likely pass the Democratic-controlled House, but "we shall see" whether it could gain traction in the Senate, where at least 10 Republicans would need to join all Democrats to block a procedural roadblock known as a filibuster.

Meng believes there is "more momentum" this year to pass the legislation and is confident President Joe Biden's administration would be a better partner on addressing anti-Asian American hate incidents than the Trump administration.

Lawmakers and advocates say the derisive language used to describe the pandemic by some politicians, including former President Donald Trump, helped inflame the anti-Asian American sentiment.

"This is an administration that actually cares about this and does not go around making things worse by calling" the coronavirus derisive names, Hirono said.

Biden's administration has issued executive orders addressing the hate incidents, and lawmakers from the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, a group of lawmakers representing the interests of Asian Americans, have requested a meeting with the administration to discuss the orders' implementation, though the meeting has not yet been scheduled.

Advocates have sounded the alarm on recent violent attacks against Asian Americans, including the killing of 84-year-old Thai American Vicha Ratanapakdee, and a recent increase in violence against senior citizens across the country.

Although Asian American communities had been told to report hate incidents in the past, Meng said recent events made it clear to her "obviously, that's not happening. And it's not happening at an accurate enough level."