Atlanta spa shootings increase fear in Asian communities amid increase in violence, hate incidents

Yancey-Bragg, N'dea

USA Today

2021-03-17

The three shootings Tuesday that killed eight people, six of them Asian women, has dramatically increased the sense of fear in the Asian community, which has already been experiencing an increase in violence and hate incidents.

Police arrested a suspect in the shootings at three spas in Atlanta and a northern suburb Tuesday night. Atlanta police said Wednesday that it was too early to determine the motive; Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said the suspect told authorities he had a sex addiction.

Even if the incident is not determined to be racially motivated, community leaders and experts say a series of violent attacks this year and a rise in hate incidents are fueled by racist rhetoric about the coronavirus pandemic and are "distinct but related trends."

"Asian American communities were already set on edge. We were alarmed by the rate of violence and hate directed towards us," said Russell Jeung, who created Stop AAPI Hate, which tracks incidents against Asian American Pacific Islander communities. "The shooting is again the worst type of violence we could go through. ... It can't continue."

More: Will Atlanta shootings spur action on anti-Asian hate crime laws?

Spa shootings: Suspect arrested after 8 people killed; most victims were Asian

Vice President Kamala Harris, who is African American and Asian American, told reporters Wednesday that the "tragic" shooting speaks to a larger problem of violence in America.

“The investigation is ongoing, we don’t yet know, we’re not yet clear about the motive," she said. "But I do want to say to our Asian American community that we stand with you and understand how this has frightened and shocked and outraged all people.”

U.S. Rep. Ted Lieu, D-Calif., offered his condolences to the victim's family's on Twitter, highlighting that the shootings occurred during a spike in anti-Asian violence. Lieu said racist phrases used by former President Donald Trump

"At this very moment, so many of them, our fellow Americans, are on the front lines of this pandemic trying to save lives," Biden said. "And still, still they are forced to live in fear for their lives just walking down streets in America. It's wrong, it's un-American and it must stop."

Biden signed a memorandum in late January denouncing xenophobia and violence against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. Lawmakers from the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, a group of lawmakers representing the interests of Asian Americans, have requested a meeting with the administration to discuss the orders' implementation, though the meeting has not yet been scheduled.

'It's wrong, it's un-American': President Biden denounces attacks against Asian Americans

More: Lawmakers to introduce anti-hate crime legislation amid rise in anti-Asian hate and violence

Democratic lawmakers plan to introduce a bill addressing the rise in hate incidents directed at Asian Americans amid the pandemic. The bill, a revised version of legislation introduced but not passed in the last Congress, would create a new position at the Department of Justice to facilitate the review of hate crimes and provide oversight of hate crimes related to COVID-19.

Jeung said expanding ethnic studies, civil rights protections, restorative justice models, linguistically appropriate mental health and trauma resources, and neighborhood watch programs are necessary to address the range of racism the community is facing.

"We need a whole government approach that’s comprehensive to uproot the racism we’re experiencing and the violence," he said.

On Thursday, the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Constitution, Civil Rights and Civil Liberties will hold a hearing on “discrimination and violence against Asian Americans."

John C. Yang, president and CEO of Asian Americans Advancing Justice-AAJC, who is expected to testify before the subcommittee, said on Twitter that the hearing "became even more important" Tuesday night.

"Our community needs to feel protected, and policymakers must hear and address our concerns," he said.