Atlanta spa shootings suspect charged with murder; too soon to tell if killings were racially motivated, police say

Miller, Ryan W; Estwick, Gary; Hayes, Christal

USA Today

2021-03-17

ATLANTA – Authorities on Wednesday said a gunman suspected of killing eight people, six of whom were Asian women, at three spas may have frequented the businesses but that it was too early to determine if the shootings would be considered a hate crime.

At least four of the victims of the Atlanta-area spas shootings were women of Korean descent, South Korea's Foreign Ministry said Wednesday. Two others were of Asian descent, police said.

Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said it was too soon in the investigation to say whether the shootings were a hate crime. "We are just not there as of yet," Bryant said in a news conference early Wednesday.

The suspect, 21-year-old Robert Aaron Long of Woodstock, Georgia, was charged with eight counts of murder Wednesday in all three shootings. Four of the counts against Long are related to shootings at two spas in Atlanta. The other four are related to shootings at a spa in Cherokee County.

Long has not been charged with a hate crime, a specific charge that authorities must prove a crime was committed on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, disability or sexual orientation. He purchased a firearm Tuesday – the day of the attacks – from Big Woods Goods, a sporting goods store in Cherokee County. Matt Kilgo, the shop's attorney, said his clients are "fully cooperating" with police. "Everything they have will be turned over," Kilgo said.

Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said Wednesday that Long told authorities that his actions were not racially motivated and that he had a sex addiction.

"These locations, he sees them as an outlet for him, something that he shouldn't be doing," Cherokee County sheriff’s Capt. Jay Baker said. "He was attempting to take out that temptation."

All three spas are listed on Rubmaps.ch, an erotic review site that allows users to search for and review illicit massage parlors.

Authorities note in the 2019 report that his parents said Long was "not suicidal, did not take any medication, and had no mental illnesses."

Long never really made an impression in school, a former classmate said.

"He was always very reserved and quiet for the most part," said Emily Voigt, who attended elementary, middle and high school with Long. "Never really stood out and a lot of us (who went to school with him) never really got the chance to know him deeper because he was very shy."

Long and his father attended church most Sundays, services during the week and went on mission trips at Crabapple First Baptist Church in Alpharetta, about 30 miles north of Atlanta, Brett Cottrell, a former youth minister told the Washington Post.

Elders at the church said in a statement that they were “grieved” to learn about the shooting Tuesday and are “heartbroken for all involved.”

Baker said Long indicated he intended to travel to Florida to carry out similar acts at "some type of porn industry" there. A 9mm firearm was recovered from the suspect's car when he was arrested, Baker said.

There's been a rise in anti-Asian attacks. Here's how to be an ally to the community.

A visual timeline: What happened at Atlanta spa shootings

Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms said the spas in Atlanta were not on police's radar.

She acknowledged that the shootings are the latest incident in a string of violence nationwide against Asian Americans amid the COVID-19 pandemic.

"This is an issue that is happening across the country. It is unacceptable. It is hateful. It has to stop," Lance Bottoms said.

In Cherokee County, the victims were identified as Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33, of Acworth; Paul Andre Michels, 54, of Atlanta; Xiaojie Tan, 49, of Kennesaw; and Daoyou Feng, 44.

Four others were killed at the two Atlanta spas, but police have not yet identified them.

Michels' younger brother, John Michels, 52, said he believes his brother was "just in the wrong place at the wrong time." He said they grew up with a total of nine siblings in Detroit, riding dirt bikes and spending summer weekends at a lake and getting into mischief together. They both served in the U.S. Army at the same time and his brother served as an infantryman in the late 1980s.

"I'm the closest in age, so we were basically like twins," John said. "We did everything together growing up."

John said Paul Michels owned an alarm company in Atlanta, where he and his wife, Bonnie, have lived 26 years. "He was just a very hard-working Republican," John added, "and a very strong Trump supporter."

Even in grief, John insisted on putting out a message to the alleged slayer: "Although this is a tragedy, I forgive that man and so will Jesus Christ... I cannot hate him for it. I pray for his repentance."

What we know about the Atlanta shootings: Suspect arrested after 8 people killed at 3 spas parlors

Stop AAPI Hate, a group that tracks incidents of discrimination and xenophobia against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, called the incident an "unspeakable tragedy."

"This latest attack will only exacerbate the fear and pain that the Asian American community continues to endure," the group said.

Vice President Kamala Harris, the first African American and South Asian American woman to be elected vice president, called the incident "tragic."

"The investigation is ongoing, we don’t yet know, we’re not yet clear about the motive.

According to Stop AAPI Hate, violence against Asian Americans has sharply increased since March 2020 when the COVID-19 pandemic began. The group said Asian Americans have been blamed for the pandemic and connected the attacks to racist rhetoric from politicians, including former President Donald Trump.

Sam Hu, a second-generation Korean American visiting Atlanta this week, spent early Wednesday morning trying to make sense of what happened.

“The problem seems so insurmountable. I don’t even know where to try to begin. I think that’s why I’m so sad. It’s random, but it’s not. It’s premeditated, but it’s not. ... I’m worried because it could happen anywhere.”

Hu said he believes Tuesday’s shootings are hate crimes. He wants local, state and federal officials to move fast to categorize them as such. To not do so would be the latest disservice to Asian Americans, he said.

"I just couldn’t help but think that, like, that could have been me, my parents, my friends, my loved ones," Hu said.

Stop AAPI Hate tracked nearly 3,800 incidents of hate, discrimination or attacks on Asian Americans from March 2020 through February 2021. At least 48 incidents have occurred in Georgia, the group said.

White House press secretary Jen Psaki said President Joe Biden had been briefed on the "horrific shootings" and administration officials have been in contact with the mayor’s office and the FBI.

Meanwhile, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken was in South Korea on Wednesday morning to meet with Foreign Minister Chung Eui-yong. He acknowledged the shooting and the fact that four of the victims were believed to be of Korean descent. “We are horrified by this violence which has no place in America or anywhere,” Blinken said.

Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp said in a tweet he appreciated law enforcement's "quick apprehension" of Long.

"Our entire family is praying for the victims of these horrific acts of violence," the governor said.
