Chrissy Teigen on 'heartbreaking' rise in anti-Asian attacks: 'Reach out in any way to support'

Moniuszko, Sara M.

USA Today

2021-03-26

Chrissy Teigen is speaking up about the recent rise in anti-Asian attacks.
During an appearance on "The Kelly Clarkson Show" airing Friday the model and mom of two 35 said it's been "incredible" to see the protests taking place to bring awareness to the issue.
"I think we just came out of a long line of politicians that put a target on Asian people's backs by calling it 'the China virus'" she told Clarkson. "I automatically think of when my mom's without me 'How do people look at her? How do people treat her?' A lot of mothers and fathers are being targeted around the country."
Last week eight people – most of them women of Asian descent – were killed in three shootings at Atlanta-area spas before police arrested a 21-year-old man suspected of being the gunman.
Teigen added that "it's so obvious" to her what the motive is in these types of attacks.
"It doesn't seem to be obvious to the politicians out there that are saying 'We're not quite sure of the motive' but I think we know what it is" she added.
I'm 'afraid to leave my house': Asian women are living in fear
She also encouraged others to take action but not through "performative activism."
"If people can just reach out in any way to support the Asian-American community AAPI in general" Teigen said. "There's Stop AAPI Hate which is a wonderful organization to donate to and an organization called 18 Million Rising is really incredible." 
She also encouraged people to support Asian-owned businesses in their communities.
At the beginning of the pandemic businesses especially struggled amid fears of the coronavirus outbreak in the United States including restaurants in Chinatown neighborhoods across the country.
"These things are disappearing quicker than we know it and soon they're going to be gone and it's heartbreaking to me" she said.
Chrissy Teigen abruptly quits Twitter. 6 signs you need to unplug and ditch social media
Teigen has long been vocal on issues that matter to her but one place her voice will no longer be heard is Twitter.
The star made headlines recently for walking away from social media site. The platform earned her the title Queen of Clapbacks for her clever takedowns and snarky zings but she said the constant criticism took a toll on her mental health.