Trevor Noah on Atlanta shootings: 'If that's not racism then the word has no meaning'

Jenna Ryu

USA Today

2021-03-17

Celebrities are speaking out about the latest tragedy in the Asian community.

Seven women and one man, most of them of Asian descent, were killed Tuesday night in three Atlanta-area spa shootings. Two shootings were in northeast Atlanta and the third in Cherokee County. Police arrested 21-year-old Robert Aaron Long as the suspected gunman. Police said Long told authorities his actions were motivated by a sex addiction, not race, and he may have frequented some of the spas where the shootings happened.

While police said Long told authorities his actions were motivated by sex addiction, many experts and top Asian American lawmakers say it's hard not to see racism inextricably tied to the killings due to a recent wave of attacks against Asian Americans that coincided with the spread of the coronavirus across the United States.

Trevor Noah agrees. The "Daily Show" host slammed claims that the shootings weren't racially-charged on his Wednesday segment.

"Your murders speak louder than your words," Noah said.

"Don't tell me that this thing had nothing to do with race, even if the shooter said that. He thinks it had to do with his sex addiction." he added. "This guy blamed a specific race of people for his problems and then murdered them because of it. If that's not racism then the word has no meaning."

Trevor also criticized Cherokee County sheriff spokesperson Capt. Jay Baker who said the shooter had a "bad day" in a press conference Wednesday.

"No, yesterday was a 'bad day' for the people who lost their lives. It's always interesting who police try and find the humanity in," Noah said.

'Senseless and tragic': LeBron James, NBA stars speak out against Atlanta-area shootings

Kim Kardashian West said "Asians are human and deserve to be treated as such."

Her mother, Kris Jenner, added: "I stand in solidarity with the Asian community, and with any individuals who feel attacked or marginalized because of the color of their skin. We are one world, one humanity, and one community."

John Legend said he is "sending love to all the loved ones of those whose lives were taken.

"Absolutely horrible," the "All of Me" singer wrote in response to Tuesday night's shooting. "Our nation needs to reckon with the increased threats being directed at our Asian-American brothers and sisters."

"This escalation of attacks on Asian Americans is horrifying. STOP IT. Stop this sickness America. Stop this brutality," Patricia Arquette tweeted.

Alyssa Milano showed her support by writing that she stands with the Asian American and Pacific Islander community, and singer Sara Bareilles described hate toward Asian Americans as "loud," "exhausting" and "destructive."

"The Asian hate crime tonight in Atlanta-Buckhead and Cherokee County is just so (expletive) appalling and so sad," Florence Pugh wrote on her Instagram story.

"Everytime (sic) there's a mass shooting it's so heartbreaking and so destructive and yet America just shakes it's (sic) head as if that's just part of being in America and carries on. It doesn't have to be. This was targeted. This is white supremacy. This was targeted Asian murder."