Rally decries anti-Asian violence mourns victims

Ramirez, Marc; Hughes, Trevor

USA Today

2021-03-22

ATLANTA – As people nationwide rallied in support of the nation's Asian American community after last week's killings in Georgia, hundreds gathered over the weekend in downtown Atlanta for a rally and march to honor the victims and decry anti-Asian violence.

'My mother can rest easy'

A GoFundMe account for the sons of shooting victim Hyun Jung Grant has raised millions of dollars.

"We have been invisible and ignored in our country for over a century," New York City-based actor Will Lex Ham told the crowd on Saturday. "We are getting violently physically attacked. It took an elderly man in San Francisco to die to get attention. It took six Asian women to die in Atlanta to get people to care."

Eight people were killed in Tuesday's rampage, six of them Asian women. Though police say the suspect said he did not target them because of their race, the crime touched a nerve in a community already reeling from a yearlong rise in anti-Asian incidents that has spiked in recent months.

The crowd in Atlanta gathered near the State Capitol, many holding signs reading "Stop Asian Hate" as Ham, among the event's organizers, led them in a chant of "Stand up fight back!"

Gaby Lynch, 32, carried a piece of cardboard that read "Does this sign make me look submissive?"

The daughter of a Filipino man and a Korean-Japanese-Irish mother, Lynch said the event was her first rally, and she was heartened to see the community support.

"It feels like home – like we are surrounded by family members," said Lynch, who works in wholesaling in Atlanta. "We need people to know that we are not just silent and quiet."

Newly elected Sen. Raphael Warnock, D-Ga., offered his support to the crowd and promised to use his position to fight discrimination, racism, and gun violence.

The tragedy has prompted an outpouring of support as communities nationwide from Phoenix to Philadelphia gathered to mourn the dead. A coalition called the Asian American Leaders Table had compiled a list of such events around the country, some of them planned over the weekend or later this month.

Video shows suspect at spa

Surveillance video released Friday shows the suspect in the killings leaving the spa where the first shootings are believed to have taken place.

The video obtained by the Associated Press shows 21-year-old Robert Aaron Long leaving Young's Asian Massage in Acworth, Georgia, 30 minutes north of Atlanta, and getting into his vehicle.

Four people were shot to death there and another person wounded. Four others were killed at two other spas in the Atlanta area.

Other video footage obtained by the Washington Post indicates Long spent an hour outside Young's before entering the spa. An hour and 12 minutes later, he is seen leaving the location and getting into his car before police arrive, the newspaper said.

More details about the suspect have been emerging. Records released to USA TODAY on Friday indicated that Long had been kicked out of his parents' home the day before the shooting and was "emotional."

Long also had recently been furloughed from his job at a trade show business because of the COVID-19 pandemic, the report said.

Police have said Long had indicated he committed the shootings because of a sex addiction.

Spas had been targets of stings

Police records showed officers had targeted two of the spas numerous times over the past decade in prostitution stings, appearing to contradict Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms' statement last week that aside from a minor potential theft, the businesses had not been a police concern.

Federal investigators have not found evidence that clears the high bar for federal hate crime charges against Long, the AP reported, citing two law enforcement officials.

Nevertheless, experts have said the killings are inextricably connected to racism and hate. The shootings come during a spike in incidents of hate, discrimination, and violence against Asian Americans amid the COVID-19 pandemic fueled by politicians' racist rhetoric, said Stop AAPI Hate, a group that tracks such incidents. AAPI stands for Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.

Those killed Tuesday were Soon Chung Park, 74; Hyun Jung Grant, 51; Suncha Kim, 69; Yong Ae Yue, 63; Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33; Paul Andre Michels, 54; Daoyou Feng, 44; and Xiaojie Tan, 49, who owned Young's.

Outrage across the country

The events Tuesday began late that afternoon when authorities say Long opened fire at Young's before driving 30 miles into Atlanta and killing four more people at two businesses, Gold Spa and Aromatherapy Spa. Police believe he was headed to Florida where he meant to target additional spas when he was arrested about 150 miles south of Atlanta.

Reverberations from the incident are being felt throughout the country, especially among Asian Americans who feel a sense of vulnerability and are fearful of heading out amid the spike in anti-Asian incidents. In a report released last week before the Atlanta killings, Stop AAPI Hate said it recorded nearly 3,800 anti-Asian incidents – including harassment, discrimination, and acts of violence – from mid-March last year to late February 2021.

Kay Kim, a longtime resident of Savannah who attends a local Asian church, said her whole congregation is scared. In conversation, she oscillates between anxiety about the violence and faith that the world is still beautiful.

"It's senseless," Kim said. "It doesn't have to be this way. It's a beautiful America, a blessed country. We shouldn't ruin it with these kinds of acts."