‘Godspell’ in 2020: Masks, Partitions and a Contactless Crucifixion

Michael Paulson

New York Times

2020-08-06

PITTSFIELD, Mass. — And on the eighth day, Jesus wept.A hard rain thrummed on the roof of a festival tent. Nine masked performers, speechless, stared intently at center stage. NicholasEdwards, the 28-year-old actor playing the Son of God, made it midway through the “Godspell” ballad “Beautiful City” when, rising to sing

a lyric about rebuilding, he burst into tears.It had been a long first week, and not just because there was so much to memorize. There were the nasal swabs and the temperaturechecks and the quarantining and the face coverings. And now there were tape measures to double-check distances and translucent screensto enclose backup singers; still to come were costume pockets to stash hand sanitizer.The rehearsal halted. The keyboardist stopped playing. Edwards buried his head — pierced in one ear by a cruciform stud — under hisblack tank top.“In the real world, we would come over and hug you,” said the director, Alan Filderman. But, complying with the rules of the day, he didnot rise from his seat; nor did the other actors, who extended air hugs instead.Edwards took a moment, collected himself and finished the scene. “As I started to sing, ‘When your trust is all but shattered,’ that took meout, really hearing that,” he later explained. “We’ve lost all faith and trust in each other, and trust in the theater. Will it ever come back?”The coronavirus pandemic emptied stages across the United States in March, as local officials banned large gatherings and then thenationwide theater actors’ union barred its members from performing. Now, for the first time anywhere in the country, a handful of unionactors are returning to the stage — two stages, actually, both of them located in the Berkshires, a treasured summer cultural destination inWestern Massachusetts.The two productions here in Pittsfield — “Godspell” at Berkshire Theater Group, and the one-person play “Harry Clarke” at BarringtonStage Company — are de facto public health experiments. If they succeed, they could be a model for professional theater during thisperiod of peril. But if actors or audience members get sick, that would be a serious setback.“The whole industry needs this,” said Kate Shindle, the president of Actors’ Equity Association, the labor union representing 51,000performers and stage managers. Shindle, who planned to attend the “Godspell” opening Aug. 7, video called the musical’s actors on theirfirst day of rehearsal with a message of encouragement and of caution. “Not to put any pressure on you, but the entire American theater isdepending on you to be really smart,” she said. “People are going to look to you to know that theater can happen without anybody gettingsick.”Theater, as an art form and an industry, is facing an enormous crisis.Much of the way it has long worked — audiences packed side-by-side in confined spaces, storytelling that often involves intimacy, combatand singing — seems to make it especially conducive to viral spread. Many theaters have pivoted to streaming, and some are putting onshows with nonunion actors, but even as other elements of society gingerly reopen, there is no clear plan for how or when Broadway andthe nation’s regional theaters might do so.That means many who depend on stagecraft for a living are jobless. Employers — from big Broadway shows to tiny nonprofits — have lostrevenue and laid off employees. Workers — from actors to ushers — have lost their income and, in a growing number of cases, their healthinsurance.Equity agreed to allow the two Berkshire productions because the number of reported coronavirus cases in Western Massachusetts is lowand because the theaters agreed to implement a dizzying array of prophylactic measures for both workers and audience members. Themonthlong production of “Godspell,” with 10 roles, is the more complex undertaking because of the cast size and the perils of singing,which produces potentially dangerous aerosols.The 1971 musical remains enormously popular, with nearly 10,000 productions over the past two decades. Adapted from the Gospel ofMatthew, the show focuses on Jesus’ uses of parables as a teaching tool; it has been staged in many, many ways (at a refugee camp, in aprison, among homeless squatters), and this production — spoiler alert — is set during the pandemic. The visible onstage public healthmeasures — partitions, masks, social distancing — “become part of the parable of being a moral person,” said Matthew Adelson, the show’slighting designer.The acting company — 12 performers, including two understudies — range in age from 20 to 34. A few have Broadway experience, butmost are at earlier stages of their careers. At least three, including Edwards, have had the coronavirus.They are exuberantly grateful to be working. “I’m just so excited to perform for people again,” said Najah Hetsberger, a 20-year-oldmusical theater student at Montclair State University. “I haven’t done that for months.”There are, of course, practical benefits as well. Dan Rosales, a 30-year-old who expected to spend this summer performing in the off-Broadway musical “Trevor,” said that, without this role, he wouldn’t qualify for health insurance next year. And Emily Koch, a 29-year-oldwho has performed leading roles in “Wicked” and “Waitress,” acknowledged, “I definitely needed the money.”Over and over, they said they hoped success in Pittsfield would lead to more jobs for theater artists elsewhere. “This has to work,” saidAlex Getlin, a 26-year-old New Yorker spending her third summer at Berkshire Theater Group, “so more theater can happen in the rest ofthe country and more of my friends can get back to work. 

But not everyone wanted to be part of this production. “They’re bold, and someone has to do it, but I don’t know that I wanted to be theguinea pig,” said Vishal Vaidya, one of three actors who declined an opportunity to be in the show. “My joke is, ‘Do I want to die doing“Godspell”?’”On the day of the first rehearsal, under an open-air tent in Stockbridge, there were rules to be learned even before the actors openedtheir scripts: one person in a bathroom at a time; music stands 6 feet apart; individually wrapped bagels; personal bins of Sharpies,sweat rags and sanitizer.Kate Maguire, the theater’s artistic director, choked up as she offered a few words of welcome: “At this time in history, someone had tobegin to tell the stories again.”And then they began to talk. About the pandemic. About the Black Lives Matter movement. About “Godspell.”“I’ve been alone in my apartment for four months, literally,” Filderman, 65, offered as a prompt and a confession. “I’m very nervousabout my life and my future.”Stories, which Filderman would later fashion into a prelude, began to flow. Zach Williams, a 28-year-old Texan, had been touring in“Aladdin” when the pandemic hit. Tim Jones, 24, had just moved to New York; he returned home to Pittsfield and took a job deliveringmasks and gowns to nursing homes.Kimberly Immanuel, 25, reflected on injustice. “I was sick of people staring at me as if I was the human incarnation of COVID-19 justbecause I’m Asian,” she said.Edwards spoke of theater as a path through despair. “When COVID started, I thought, I’m just going to give up — I had panic attacksfor days on end,” he said. “Art saved me.”A deafening thunderstorm brought an end to that day’s rehearsal.The show is being staged in a tent pitched on a gravel-and-asphalt parking lot beside the Berkshire Theater Group’s Colonial Theater,and that’s where most of the two-week rehearsal period took place.Three mornings a week, the actors shuttled to the Berkshire Medical Center for testing. There was rarely any wait — this is a ruralregion — so they simply drove under a canopy, rolled down the car windows and braced. Some shrugged, while others screamed;Hetsberger repeatedly yelled at the top of her lungs even before the swab hit her nose, saying doing so helped her endure the probe.Each day there were complications (not just the virus but also passing motorcycles, airplanes, rainstorms and bugs) and compromises.“At first, did I imagine all these masks and all these partitions? No,” Filderman said. “But I do now, and I think it’s going to be reallygood because it makes the actors feel safe and it’s going to make the audience feel safe.”To keep the actors apart, the wide, shallow stage is subdivided into 10 “home bases,” each with a seating element of a different height:a chair, a stepladder, a beanbag. Props are limited because none can be passed from actor to actor. Pandemic humor is built into thestaging — during the vaudevillian number “All for the Best,” Jesus and Judas brandish yardsticks, rather than canes, and measure thedistance between them.The audience will be small — under Massachusetts safety standards, outdoor performance venues are allowed to admit only 100 people,including cast and crew, so the theater is expecting to sell just 75 tickets a night, at $100 each. (Ordinarily, the theater stages itsbiggest shows in a 780-seat house.)The front row will be 25 feet from the stage, in accordance with the state’s protocols for performances involving singing. (The show’smusic does not require wind or brass instruments, which are also thought to pose a risk of droplet transmission.) Audience members willhave to submit to temperature checks before entering; parties will be seated at social distances from one another; and masks will bemandatory.Among those planning to brave the restrictions: Stephen Schwartz, the show’s songwriter, best known for “Wicked.” “I’m just delightedthat live theater is finding a way back,” he said, “albeit tentatively and cautiously, but finding a way at all.”The tensest moment came on the seventh day of rehearsals. It was a hot one — 86 degrees — and the show’s choreographer, GerryMcIntyre, was teaching the actors the steps for Koch’s big number, “Bless the Lord.”Jason Weixelman, in his seventh summer as a stage manager with Berkshire Theater Group, didn’t like what he was seeing. Weixelman,40, could never have imagined that a life in the theater would involve enforcing public health protocols just devised by the state ofMassachusetts, Actors’ Equity, and the theater itself. But now he was concerned that performers at the front of the stage were at riskfrom those at the back, and he told Filderman that the partitions they had been using to separate singers next to one another mightalso be needed to separate the rows

The cast was antsy. Filderman was frustrated. “I need to know,” growled the director, who was already deep into the first act, withbarely more than a week until the first performance. “We need this clarified.”Edwards, who is the elected liaison between the actors and their union, decided he was not going to wait for the creative team andtheater officials to brainstorm best practices. He pulled out his cellphone and called Equity’s national headquarters.The response was clear: Any time someone in the back row was singing, there would need to be a physical barrier between them andthose in the front row. And any time actors were passing within 6 feet of one another — meaning basically every time a scenechanged — they would need to wear a mask.Filderman’s original conceit, in which the actors entered the stage masked, performed the show while socially distant but withoutmasks, and then put on masks again when exiting into the offstage world, would not pass muster. “My concept for the show is gone,”he blurted out, “and life goes on.”The first several scenes, which had already been rehearsed, would now need to be “COVID-proofed” — a phrase that, interchangeablywith “Corona-proofed,” was quickly adopted by cast and crew. (Periodically, rehearsal would screech to a halt when someone yelled“COVID hold!” to raise a safety question.)There were complications for the designers, too.Hunter Kaczorowski, the costume designer, decided to tie-dye neck gaiters that could be used as face coverings during the show, easyto roll up and down without disrupting the head-mounted microphones.Adelson, the lighting designer, was in charge of limiting glare off the partitions. And Randall Parsons, the set designer, managed thepartitions themselves, rolling panels of clear vinyl that he called “spit guards.”“We’re not ecstatic about this, but we’re doing what we have to do for the prime directive, which is safety,” said Parsons, who, likemany of his colleagues, lost several jobs when the pandemic hit. “This is a new world for everyone. But I’m still like, ‘Oh my God, Ihave a show!’”Up the road, there were major complications for “Harry Clarke” as well. The play, starring Mark Dold and scheduled to open Aug. 9,was to be the first Equity-approved indoor production of the pandemic. And Barrington Stage went to great lengths to safeguard thetheater: upgrading its air conditioning system to improve air filtering and circulation, removing most of its seats to ensure socialdistancing and replacing bathroom fixtures (to make them touchless) and assistive listening devices (to make them easier to clean).But, just six days before the first performance, still lacking permission from Massachusetts to stage indoor theater, the productiondecided it had no option but to move outside.That night, much of the “Godspell” cast gathered on the porch of the large house where they were isolating — mystified by some ofthe restrictions (why could they sit on the stage floor where others had walked but not on chairs where others had sat?), frustratedwith all the changes (why didn’t they just do a concert performance?), worried that, at any point, the show could be shut down.Michael Wartella, an elder statesman among the group as a father and a 34-year-old with three Broadway credits, reminded theothers that chaos comes with theater. “There’s always stopped rehearsals with arguments and the director and choreographerscreaming at each other,” he said. “This is just a different topic.”Edwards, eating a burrito, cradling a script and eager to get back to running lines with his castmates, listened as the conversationdrifted from the legacy of AIDS to masking practices in Japan.“We’re risking our lives, but if this finishes and we don’t get sick, then whatever we’re doing is working,” he said. “Theater needs tobe saved somehow.”
