Anti-Asian Racism Isn't New: [Op-Ed]

Qian Julie Wang

New York Times

2021-02-19

A frightening wave of attacks has Asian communities on edge. But I experienced street harassment long before
the pandemic.

One of the first English words I learned was an ethnic slur I heard whenever my parents and I walked around
the city. I was 7 years old and had just moved to Brooklyn from China. One day, eager to show off, I turned to
my father and declared, "We are chinks now!" in English. My father looked as if I had stabbed him. In a grave,
low voice he told me to never utter that word again.

That slur has haunted me throughout my life, cutting like a knife when I least expect it. A boy on a bike once
screamed it so deep into my ear that it rang for hours afterward. The ringing eventually subsided, but the street
harassment became a regular fixture in my life.

Before the pandemic, the simple act of walking to the courthouse where I work demanded exhaustive control of
my body. For a while I tried very hard to make myself look less feminine and more white. I'd pretend to be deaf
when strangers addressed me with their eyes pulled back into a slant while taunting "Me love you long time" or
loudly said they had "yellow fever."

As the coronavirus spread, I began to dread my commute to work. People made a show of keeping away from
me even in crowded subway train cars. Other times, the harassment was more overt -- strangers bumped their
shoulders into me; someone jabbed me with the pointy metal end of a long umbrella while shouting, "Go back
to China." My parents wore hats, sunglasses and double masks whenever they left the house.

The last time I took the train to work, in March, a man put his face inches away from mine and shouted "chink"
while looking me dead in the eyes. Not one person came to my defense. The slur rang through my ears,
transporting me back to my childhood. I haven't set foot on a train or a bus since.

I'm far from alone. The United States has had a surge in violence against Asian-Americans during the pandemic.
Between March and December 2020, Stop AAPI Hate, an initiative that tracks and responds to reported
incidents of violence and discrimination directed at Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders, received more than
2,800 reports of incidents against Asian-Americans. Stop AAPI Hate also found that women are twice as likely as
men to report coronavirus-related harassment.

Though Anti-Asian sentiment has increased during the pandemic, it is woven into the very fabric of this country.
The Page Act of 1875 effectively barred Chinese women, who were believed to spread sexual disease and to
pose a threat to white values, lives and futures, from entering the country. The Chinese Exclusion Act, which
was signed into law in 1882, was the first and only enacted legislation to prohibit immigration of all individuals
of a particular national origin. The exclusion laws weren't repealed until 1943, when Congress established an
immigration quota for China of about 105 visas per year.

The country's legal framework dehumanized Asian immigrants, and in turn emboldened Americans to brutalize
us. In the Chinese Massacre of 1871, a white mob hanged nearly 20 Chinese immigrants in makeshift gallows in
Los Angeles. In 1930, hundreds of white men roamed the streets of Watsonville, Calif., terrorizing Filipino
farmworkers for days before killing a man. After Pearl Harbor, an angry nation used Japanese-Americans as a
scapegoat. After the Vietnam War, the Ku Klux Klan tried to drive Vietnamese-Americans out of Texas by burning
their houses and boats -- a symptom of anti-Vietnamese sentiment across the country.

The recent spate of attacks is targeting the most vulnerable members of our community. Two assailants slapped
an 89-year-old woman in the face and set her shirt on fire in Brooklyn last fall. In January, an 84-year-old man
died after he was brutally attacked while on a morning walk in San Francisco. This week a 52-year-old woman
waiting in line outside a bakery in Flushing, Queens, was rushed to the hospital after she was violently shoved
and blacked out.

Many seem intent on ignoring our pain, marking us with the broad stroke of the condescending model-minority
brush. They normalize racism against Asian-Americans, and allowed our former president to incite hatred using
racist language like "Kung flu" and "China plague."

At work, my boss accused me of being "oversensitive," of making things about race that aren't. I have been told
that Asian-Americans don't experience racism. I half-believed it, thinking that I was taking things too personally,
being too weak -- too "Asian." When I said that my former law firm needed to do more than pay lip service to
the Black Lives Matter movement, the same boss, a white man who used the term "open kimono" in business
meetings, dismissed the idea and declared that I, as an Asian-American, had it so much better than "them."

As long as white supremacy is permitted to perpetuate a divide between Asian-Americans and Black and
Indigenous people and other people of color, we can make no real progress against our common oppressor: the
systems in our country that were designed to shut us all out.

In 1992, my father left his job as a professor in China in pursuit of the rights and equality touted by our nation's
founders. Nearly three decades later, he hesitates each time he leaves his home. And yet, when I asked him
about it over Lunar New Year, he showed no signs of resignation, choosing to believe instead that things will get
better. As he often said to me growing up, no matter what came our way: America can be good.
