Asian American teen attacked on Philly SEPTA train speaks out, Students march

Tamanaha, Akemi

Others

2021-12-01

The Asian American teenager who was attacked aboard a Philly SEPTA train on November 17 is speaking out for the first time, CBS Philadelphia reports. 
Christine Lu was kicked and stomped on after she tried to help an Asian American high school freshman who was being bullied on the Broad Street Line subway while on the way home from school. 
A cellphone video shows Lu being thrown to the ground as she tries to intervene. She was then attacked by four teenagers. 
Both Lu and the student went to Central High School. Lu is an 18-year-old high school senior. 
Authorities believe that the attack may have been racially motivated. They say the attackers can be heard using racial slurs in the video. 
Hundreds of Philadelphians marched toward the City Hall on Tuesday afternoon, WHYY reports. They were chanting "stop bullies" and "stop Asian hate." 
Lu spoke outside the Municipal Services Building in Center City Tuesday afternoon. 
"Our message is loud and clear," Lu said, according to WHYY. "We must all come together regardless of race, religion, or socio-economic classes, because we all want the same for our community: public safety in the City of Brotherly Love." 
Many called on SEPTA to do more to prevent violent attacks. They also asked schools to address bullying. 
Alix Webb, a lead organizer for Asian Americans United in Philadelphia, told WHYY that the group does not believe the solution is an increased police presence. 
"We don't want solutions that are delivered at the expense of others, and that are a tool of white supremacy that perpetuate a cycle of violence and racial injustice," 
Webb said. 
AAU is calling for restorative justice solutions like mental health resources, counselors, bilingual services, and curriculum changes that include a focus on ethnic and cultural studies. 
Lu told CBS Philadelphia that she hopes there is a path forward for her attackers. 
"I hope that they learn from this incident, and to be a better person," Lu said. "Because I know that they're just kids and they have a great future ahead." 