8 killed in 3 separate spa shootings in US

None

Others

2021-03-17

ISLAMABAD, March 17 -- Eight people, six of whom were Asian women, were killed in shootings at three
different spas in the US state of Georgia on Tuesday, with a 21-yearold man in custody on suspicion of staging
all three attacks, police said.
The shootings came with many Asian-Americans already on edge following a recent spike in hate crimes against
the community and triggered immediate fears that Asian-run businesses may have been deliberately targeted.
Four of the victims were killed at Young's Asian Massage near Acworth, a suburb of Georgia's capital city
Atlanta, the Atlanta Journal- Constitution reported.
Captain Jay Baker of the Cherokee County sheriff's office told the paper the victims were two Asian women, a
white woman, and a white man, while a Hispanic man was wounded.
The Atlanta police department separately confirmed that four women were found dead at two business
establishments in northeast Atlanta, identified as the Gold Massage Spa and Aroma Therapy spa.
Police told the Atlanta Journal- Constitution that all four Atlanta victims were Asian women.
South Korea's Yonhap News Agency reported the country's foreign ministry had confirmed that four of the
victims were of Korean descent.
Authorities have identified Robert Aaron Long as a suspect in all three shootings.
Based on the pattern of surveillance video from the shooting scenes, Atlanta police spokesman Sergeant John
Chafee told AFP: "It is extremely likely our suspect is the same as Cherokee County's, who is in custody.
"We are working closely with them to confirm with certainty our cases are related," he added.
Long was taken into custody after a "brief pursuit" about 240 kilometres from Atlanta, according to a statement
by the Georgia Department of Safety on Facebook.
Describing the scene in northeast Atlanta, the city police department said: "Upon arrival, officers located three
females deceased inside the location from apparent gunshot wounds." While on the scene, officers were advised
of shots fired across the street, where they found a fourth female victim.
Adriana Mejia, niece of one of the victims, said the family was "devastated" after her uncle was shot and that
they were praying for his recovery.
"We never know when we're at the wrong place at the wrong time because this was so all of a sudden," she
said.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation was assisting in the investigation, a spokesman told AFP.
Marginalised minorities The shootings come as reports of attacks against Asian-Americans, primarily elders,
have spiked in recent months - fueled during the Covid-19 pandemic, activists believe, by talk of the "Chinese
virus" by former President Donald Trump and others.
News of the shootings came just hours after the release of a report by the advocacy group, Stop AAPI Hate,
suggested a marked increase in hate crimes against Asian-Americans - with women disproportionately affected.
