 
Coronavirus stigma adds to long-term challenges
for North American Chinatowns 
 
Magnier, Mark . South China Morning Post ; Hong Kong [Hong Kong]01 Mar 2020: News.5.
  
ProQuest document link
 
  
 
FULL TEXT
 
Chinatowns across North ­America are reeling as panic and ignorance spread faster than the actual coronavirus, in
the latest blow to neighbourhoods already battered by gentrification and an identity crisis. 
Chinese communities from New York to California and ­Ontario to New Mexico report that business is down as
much as 70 per cent. Parades, street fairs and Spring Festival banquets have been cancelled, malls are empty and
streets deserted. 
Chinatown businesspeople say the biggest drop is not necessarily among Caucasian customers but Chinese-
Americans alarmed by sensationalistic postings on WeChat and Weibo. 
"Everyone's panicking," said Tony Hu, sitting in his empty Lao Sze Chuan restaurant during ­dinnertime in Chicago's
Chinatown. "It's crazy." 
Particularly hard hit are ­American companies dependent on ­Chinese tourists. Tourism ­Economics, a consultancy,
­expects Chinese visitors to fall nearly 30 per cent this year, and take some time to recover, costing the US
economy US$10.3 billion through 2024. 
Lisa Shan, a plasticware wholesaler serving some 100 ­Chinese restaurants in Flushing, New York, expects several
of them to fold soon. "This crisis is worse than Sars," she said, referring to the 2003 outbreak of severe acute
respiratory syndrome. 
Beyond the economic headwinds, Chinese in North America are targets of mounting xenophobia and
discrimination, including some being told to "go home". 
Although fear is a natural ­response to danger, especially given how much remains ­unknown about Covid-19 - the
disease caused by the coronavirus - the crisis has fanned entrenched stereotypes, say sociologists. 
A leaflet in the Carson area of Los Angeles with a fake World Health Organisation seal warned residents to avoid
Asian- ­American businesses because of the coronavirus. A middle school student of Asian descent was
­reportedly assaulted and sent to hospital in southern California after classmates accused him of having the virus.
Online postings suggest the illness should be ­renamed "Kung Flu". 
Other bullying, shunning and assault cases have been reported across the continent, sparked by unfounded fears
that people with Asian features are more likely to carry the virus. 
But Asian-Americans are not immune from sharing these fears. 
Ray Tong, a contractor in ­Milpitas, California, avoids his favourite Chinese restaurants ­despite being Chinese-
American. Recently, he headed to a Middle Eastern restaurant only to find that several other Chinese had the same
plan. "Well, so much for that idea," Tong said. "The restaurant's name doesn't alter where the virus might eventually
decide to visit." 
Civic boosters have tried to lift the spirits and pocketbooks of Chinatowns with rallies, raffles, workshops and
public service ­announcements. "Focus on facts, not fear," urged the Los Angeles county public health department,
which warned against stigmatising Asians. 
Canada started a "Together We Win" campaign, while New York, with North America's largest Chinese-American
community, started "Show Some Love in ­Chinatown" to urge customers to ­return. 
Others are fighting the virus with online campaigns, such as #LoveBostonChinatown, #IamNotAVirus and
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 1 of 4
#coronaracism. 
Mayors, meanwhile, are leading with their chopsticks. 
Mayors Libby Schaaf of Oakland, California, and Bill de Blasio of New York both dined on dim sum as the cameras
whirred. 
House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi bought a wok in San Francisco's Chinatown. Chicago locals
organised a reassuring "food crawl" through beleaguered Chinese ­restaurants. And Philadelphia Mayor Jim
Kenney dived into a well-publicised plate of shrimp dumplings. 
"Call it an act of moral, political and culinary support," The Philadelphia Inquirer said. 
California, with far more Asian-Americans than any other US state, has redoubled efforts to deter fear-stoked
violence and discrimination. 
But the toxic climate of ­national politics has not helped, said Manjusha Kulkarni, leader of the Asian Pacific Policy
and Planning Council, which representing 1.5 million Los Angeles residents. The group recently hosted a rally
against virus-related racism. 
"We believe the Trump ­administration has fanned the flames of xenophobia, much of it directed at China because
of trade," Kulkarni said. "His uplifting of white supremacy messages is a cause of concern for communities of
colour and immigrant communities around the ­country." 
But Beijing has not helped with its early attempts to hide the disease and its decision to change the methods for
counting ­infections, moves that have undercut trust and dented Asian-Americans' reputations. 
In response, New York state assemblyman Ron Kim created an Asian-American health council to educate people,
provide care and show that Asian-American doctors were part of the solution. 
"We're trying to separate the virus from any one people or ­culture," said Kim, whose district includes Flushing. "The
virus has no walls." 
The latest virus-related prejudice dovetails with a history of stigmatisation. In the wake of a surge of Chinese
immigrants after 1850, US health officials - without evidence - often viewed Chinatowns as sources of leprosy,
smallpox, bubonic plague and tuberculosis outbreaks. 
"This hearkens back to the initiation of 'yellow peril' hysteria from the 18th century through the 19th century until
now, the newest iteration," Kulkarni said. 
The coronavirus epidemic is only the latest challenge to hit North American Chinatowns. 
Historically discriminated against, their rights curtailed, forbidden to buy real estate elsewhere, Chinese retreated
for protection to land shunned by the Caucasian mainstream, creating tight-knit communities. 
As inner cities revived in recent decades, however, developers have often coveted the ground under Chinatowns,
fuelling gentrification. The National Trust for Canada has listed Vancouver's Chinatown among the country's most
endangered places. 
And a 2013 report by the Asian-American Legal Defence and Education Fund found that Asian residents went from
the majority to a minority between 1990 and 2010 in the Boston, New York and Philadelphia Chinatowns. 
While gentrification is hardly unique to Chinatowns, the ­pressures are often more pronounced given the long
histories and tight-knit structures of ­Chinese in America. 
Tenant harassment, weaponised lawsuits and overzealous ­policing of street vendors are among developers'
preferred tactics, said Diane Wong, a New York University faculty fellow studying Chinatown gentrification. 
Developers recently broke ground on a 725-unit luxury flat project and a rail hub in Los ­Angeles' Chinatown, while
­Calgary, Alberta, ­approved a massive residential tower in the heart of that city's Chinese community. 
Two Chinese neighbourhoods in New York face similar pressure. A US$1.4 billion, 815-unit tower is being built in
Manhattan's Chinatown - complete with a dog-washing room, communal herb garden and outdoor tea pavilion -
and activists in Flushing are trying and fight off a 11.7-hectare luxury residential development there. 
"We need affordable housing, and some of these apartments start at US$1 million," said Kim, the assemblyman. 
Also squeezing Chinatowns are efforts by politicians to locate undesirable projects that more ­affluent
neighbourhoods shun. Manhattan's Chinatown is fighting plans to expand a prison. ­Chicago's had a big transit
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 2 of 4
hub, and Boston's a large medical ­centre, imposed on them. Portland built a homeless shelter at Chinatown's
gateway, causing businesses to flee. 
"Chinatowns don't request these things," said David Lei, a board member with San Francisco's Centre for Asian-
American Media. "Chinatowns around the US don't have a say in City Hall." 
Chinatowns are also vexed by core identity issues. Most were built for immigrant labourers who pooled their
savings, started businesses and joined community ­associations. Now, increasingly wealthy, well-educated,
WeChat-networked migrants flock to the suburbs, eroding the fabric of once-tight communities. 
That's left many neighbourhoods as little more than a stop for tourists. Some believe it may be time to accept the
inevitable and embrace the idea of a digital ­Chinatown. 
Washington, DC, is among the best examples of a vanishing ­Chinatown, while Detroit's has completely
disappeared. 
"They've become tourist destinations, with everything from sports to Shakespeare, upscale bowling alleys and
shopping centres," said Frank Wu, a law professor at the University of California, Hastings. "But they don't actually
involve Chinese people." 
 
 
DETAILS
 
Subject:
Discrimination; Assaults; Restaurants; Chinese Americans; Fear &phobias;
Xenophobia; Homeless people; Epidemics; Asian Americans; Coronaviruses;
Respiratory diseases
Location:
Chicago Illinois Beijing China Canada North America Detroit Michigan San Francisco
California Milpitas California New Mexico United States--US New York China
California Los Angeles California Calgary Alberta Canada
People:
de Blasio, Bill Kenney, Jim Pelosi, Nancy Schaaf, Libby
Company / organization:
Name: WeChat; NAICS: 518210, 519130; Name: Philadelphia Inquirer; NAICS:
511110; Name: House of Representatives; NAICS: 921120; Name: New York
University; NAICS: 611310; Name: World Health Organization; NAICS: 923120
Publication title:
South China Morning Post; Hong Kong
First page:
News.5
Publication year:
2020
Publication date:
Mar 1, 2020
Section:
News
Publisher:
South China Morning Post Publishers Limited
Place of publication:
Hong Kong
Country of publication:
Hong Kong, Hong Kong
Publication subject:
General Interest Periodicals--China
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 3 of 4
 
LINKS
Check OneSearch for Availability
  
 
Database copyright  2021 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
 
Terms and Conditions   Contact ProQuest
ISSN:
10216731
Source type:
Newspapers
Language of publication:
English
Document type:
News
ProQuest document ID:
2368028956
Document URL:
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/coron
avirus-stigma-adds-long-term-challenges/docview/2368028956/se-
2?accountid=10345
Copyright:
Copyright South China Morning Post Publishers Limited Mar 1, 2020
Last updated:
2020-03-24
Database:
Global Newsstream
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 4 of 4
