 
Students fear bullying in reaction to new virus
Some parents report children of Asian descent
have been harassed 
 
Travis, Scott . South Florida Sun - Sentinel ; Fort Lauderdale, Fla. [Fort Lauderdale, Fla]01 Mar 2020: B.1.
  
ProQuest document link
 
  
 
FULL TEXT
 
Even with no confirmed cases of coronavirus in Florida, some parents fear an outbreak of bullying of Asian
children. 
Local school districts report no knowledge of kids being harassed as a result of the virus, but several South Florida
parents have taken to social media to say their kids are being accused of carrying coronavirus, just because
they're Asian. 
The virus, which causes the disease COVID-19, originated in Wuhan in the Hubei province in China. 
"My son was verbally attacked while walking to the library after school today by a group of boys telling him he
shouldn't be here because of the coronavirus," Weston mom Kate Chu wrote in the Facebook group "Weston and
Beyond." "When he refused to engage with the offenders by ignoring them, they continued their verbal barrage until
it escalated to them physically pushing and grabbing him." 
Chu, who could not be reached for comment, posted that the bullies were middle school students and that the
principal of her child's school was responsive to her concerns. She encouraged members of the group to "please
talk with your kids and teach them to be kind and be respectful of others." 
Ivette M. Yee, a marketing profession and the former president of the Florida chapter of the Asian American
Journalists Association, said she's been hearing about other issues as well. She said a friend posted on social
media that her children were confronted at school by classmates who made similar comments tying them to the
virus. 
"This is unacceptable and it must stop," Yee said. "I fear that once - and if - the coronavirus reaches the U.S. at a
critical mass, these incidents will surely multiply." 
Compared to other groups, the number of Asian students in South Florida schools is small. They make up about
3% in Palm Beach County, 3.9% in Broward and 1% in Miami-Dade County. About 20,000 Asian students attend the
three districts, records show. 
None of the three districts said they were aware of any bullying cases against Asian students. Still, Palm County
schools spokeswoman Claudia Shea said the district is including information about treating others with respect as
part of a new coronavirus website scheduled to launch Monday. 
"We have not seen instances of bad behavior as a reaction to coronavirus concerns. However, it's important to be
proactive," Shea said. 
The website will include information from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention telling people that "fear
and anxiety can lead to social stigma" toward Asian Americans. 
"Stigma hurts everyone by creating more fear or anger towards ordinary people instead of the disease that is
causing the problem. We can fight stigma and help not hurt others by providing social support," the district's
website will say. "We can communicate the facts that being Chinese or Asian American does not increase the
chance of getting or spreading COVID-19." 
Yee said she has offered to work with the Asian American Journalists Association and other local groups to create
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 1 of 3
a media campaign to help educate the public about misinformation and bullying. 
'I believe we have an opportunity here as communicators, storytellers, and thought leaders to educate and make
things right," she said. 
This issue raised alarm in Calfornia's San Fernando Valley, after CBS News reported Feb. 14 that a 16-year-old boy
ended up in the hospital after being physically attacked by bullies in his high school who accused him of having
the coronavirus. 
As a result of that attack, the national group OCA-Asian Pacific American Advocates called on school districts,
superintendents, parent groups and school administrators to "take proactive measures to educate students
surrounding coronavirus and reinforce or implement preventative measures against race-based bullying." 
OCA is calling on school districts, superintendents, Parent Teacher Associations, school administrators and staff
to take proactive measures to educate students about coronavirus and reinforce or implement preventative
measures against race-based bullying. 
"It's crucial that schools and administrators around the country act now to prevent further bullying and
harassment of ... students rooted in racism and misinformation about coronavirus," said Rita Pin Ahrens, the
organization's national executive director. 
"Schools are responsible for the safety of all students and need to recognize these fears around coronavirus are
manifesting in the classroom and must be addressed before more children are victimized and harmed," Pin Ahrens
said. 
Caption: This illustration from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration shows the new coronavirus. 
US Food and Drug Administration/courtesy 
 
 
DETAILS
 
Subject:
Students; Social networks; Asian Americans; Coronaviruses; COVID-19
Location:
United States--US Miami-Dade County Florida China San Fernando Valley Florida
South Florida
Company / organization:
Name: Asian American Journalists Association; NAICS: 813920; Name: CBS News;
NAICS: 512110; Name: Food &Drug Administration--FDA; NAICS: 922190; Name:
Centers for Disease Control &Prevention--CDC; NAICS: 923120
Publication title:
South Florida Sun - Sentinel; Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
First page:
B.1
Publication year:
2020
Publication date:
Mar 1, 2020
Publisher:
Tribune Publishing Company, LLC
Place of publication:
Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
Country of publication:
United States, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
Publication subject:
General Interest Periodicals--United States
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 2 of 3
 
LINKS
Check OneSearch for Availability
  
 
Database copyright  2021 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
 
Terms and Conditions   Contact ProQuest
Source type:
Newspapers
Language of publication:
English
Document type:
News
ProQuest document ID:
2368445369
Document URL:
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/stude
nts-fear-bullying-reaction-new-virus-some/docview/2368445369/se-
2?accountid=10345
Copyright:
Copyright © 2020 South Florida Sun-Sentinel
Last updated:
2020-07-13
Database:
Global Newsstream
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 3 of 3
