 
Asian restaurants face backlash as bigotry
unfolds 
 
Freund, Helen; KUMARTimes, DIVYA . Tampa Bay Times ; Tampa Bay [Tampa Bay]16 Mar 2020: 1.
  
ProQuest document link
 
  
 
FULL TEXT
 
In an Oval Office address, the president called it a foreign virus. The secretary of state referred to it as the Wuhan
virus. Florida Sen. Rick Scott has repeatedly referred to it as the Chinese coronavirus. 
Coronavirus, also known as COVID-19, was first identified in Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China. As the virus
infiltrates Tampa Bay, some members of the Asian community say they are feeling the impacts of such rhetoric. 
Chinese restaurants, in particular, have suffered financial hits. Many Chinese-owned restaurants in the Tampa Bay
area reported a sudden and steep drop in sales while other restaurants said they were still experiencing a steady
flow of customers. 
Similar backlashes against Chinese- and Asian-owned restaurants have been reported across the country, most
notably in New York City and San Francisco, both places with historic Chinatowns.  
The events have spurred catastrophic hits in sales, prompting dozens of restaurants to resort to takeout only or
shutter completely. 
Peter Chen, who owns China Yuan in Tampa, said his business began dropping about 10 days ago, a few days after
the first confirmed case of COVID-19 was reported in Florida. 
All the business at Asian restaurants is dropping, Chen said. The last 10 days weve dropped 30 to 40 percent. 
Chens family has run the Cantonese-style restaurant on N Armenia Avenue for 15 years. While the recent dip in
sales has hurt, Chen said he and his family members will take a pay cut if necessary to float the business. 
We just have to make enough to pay our employees, he said. I have some money saved, but when your (sales) drop
50 percent or more, you can make it maybe one month  
more. Longer? No way. People have to realize this isnt just in China anymore its the world. 
At Liangs Bistro in New Tampa, general manager Jason David said business began declining the same day the first
positive case of the coronavirus was reported. 
The owners are Chinese, he said. The cooks are Chinese. We have a lot of regulars that know this and there were a
lot of phone calls that day asking if we were getting our meats and seafood from China, David said. I think I got
maybe 12 calls in one day. 
David said that while the restaurants in-house business has dropped 10 to 20 percent, the takeout business has
stayed about the same. 
We havent hit pandemonium yet, and hopefully we wont. 
Beyond the immediate business impact, Sam Obeid, program director for Community Tampa Bay, said the rhetoric
could have a harmful impact on perpetuating stereotypes. Its especially true under the guidance of social
distancing, a term used by public health officials to discourage close contact between people in an effort to curb
the spread of disease. 
Choosing to add stereotypes to an already stereotyped community is breeding new racism or adding to existing
racism, Obeid said. We need to be living and surviving this in the spirit of community more than anything else. 
In the weeks following the initial outbreak, accounts of racist comments were shared on Twitter and the hashtags
#IAmNotAVirus and #JeNeSuis PasUnVirus in France began trending. Reports of a Singaporean man attacked on
a London subway and accounts of racial profiling were shared on social media. 
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 1 of 3
Michelle Phan, a makeup artist, YouTube personality and founder of Ipsy who grew up in Tampa and is of
Vietnamese heritage, responded on Twitter to the racist comments on her Instagram account and YouTube videos.
People told her to to go back to eating bats and accused Asians of starting diseases. 
Id like remind the people whove been racist towards Asians because of the coronavirus, she wrote. 90% of
everything you own was made in China including your phone. Bye. 
A letter from a member of the Greater Orlando Chinese Professional Society to Scott calling his words offensive
and discriminative made its way through WeChat circles, dividing many in the Tampa Chinese community who did
not support the message or wish to sign the letter. 
Wei Xue, A Chinese-American Tampa resident, said protesting terminology only served to further divide people. 
At this critical moment, I think its unacceptable to confuse or cause fights just between parties or for political
reasons, she said. The majority of us come here, we work hard, we know this country gave us opportunities and
freedom, so we love this country. 
Xue, who has lived in the U.S. for the past 27 years, considers herself American but still has family in China and
was filled with worry when she first heard about the outbreak in Wuhan. The response she found from her
community here was uplifting. The downturn in Chinese restaurant business isnt racist, Xue said, but a byproduct
of people not wishing to go into any crowded public space. 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention advises fighting stigma by communicating the facts that viruses
do not target specific racial or ethnic groups. 
The United Nations Human Rights Council has called for a fight against racism and the director general of the
World Health Organization advised against discrimination and stigma.  
Centers for Disease Control director Robert Redfield said it was wrong to refer to COVID-19 as Chinese
coronavirus. 
Scotts office said the senator, who has been self-quarantined after coming into contact with Brazilian president
Jair Bolsonaros press secretary Fabio Wajngarten, stands by his terminology and called it a sad propaganda
campaign from the Chinese Community Party to call it otherwise. 
The virus originated in China, Chris Hartline, Scotts communications director, said in an email statement. The
Chinese Communist Party lied about the virus. They lied about the numbers. They silenced critics and doctors who
were raising red flags (one of the first doctors to warn about the virus subsequently died from it). They sacrificed
their own people to try to prevent a PR problem. And the result was that the virus was allowed to spread further
and quicker around the world. 
Donna McGill, executive director of the Lealman and Asian Neighborhood Family Center in Lealman, which has the
highest Asian population by percentage in Florida, said she has not heard any concerns. 
We have worked so hard in this community to bridge that gap over the last 15 years, she said. I really dont hear it
here. Maybe 15 years ago, but its a very different story now. 
Contact Helen Freund at hfreund@tampabay.com or (727) 893-8310. Follow @HelenFreund. Contact Divya Kumar
at dkumar@tampabay.com or (813) 226-3339. Follow @divyadivyadivya. 
Credit: By HELEN FREUND AND DIVYA KUMARTimes Staff Writers 
 
 
DETAILS
 
Subject:
Social networks; Viruses; Asian Americans; Racism; Coronaviruses; Disease control;
Stereotypes; COVID-19; Restaurants
Location:
China Florida Tampa Bay
Company / organization:
Name: Centers for Disease Control &Prevention--CDC; NAICS: 923120
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 2 of 3
 
LINKS
Check OneSearch for Availability
  
 
Database copyright  2021 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
 
Terms and Conditions   Contact ProQuest
Publication title:
Tampa Bay Times; Tampa Bay
First page:
1
Publication year:
2020
Publication date:
Mar 16, 2020
Section:
A DESK
Publisher:
Times Publishing Company
Place of publication:
Tampa Bay
Country of publication:
United States, Tampa Bay
Publication subject:
General Interest Periodicals--United States
ISSN:
23279052
Source type:
Newspapers
Language of publication:
English
Document type:
News
ProQuest document ID:
2377451548
Document URL:
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/asian-
restaurants-face-backlash-as-bigotry/docview/2377451548/se-2?accountid=10345
Copyright:
Copyright Times Publishing Company Mar 16, 2020
Last updated:
2020-03-16
Database:
Global Newsstream
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 3 of 3
