ProQuest
document 1 of 1
Full Text Newspaper
Asian community in state feels sting of hate: 'Although their voices have been silenced, their stories will not be forgotten.'
Those in Delaware have endured everything from racial slurs to thrown rocks
Castañeda Perez, J. I. (2021, Apr 01). Asian community in state feels sting of hate: 'Although their voices have been silenced, their stories will not be forgotten.' Those in
Delaware have endured everything from racial slurs to thrown rocks. The News Journal https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?
url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/asian-community-state-feels-sting-hate/docview/2519427344/se-2?accountid=10345
NJ
Find a copy
Check One Search for Availability
http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88-
2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev: mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ: ProQ%3Anortheastnews1&atitle=Asian+community+in+state+feels +sting+of+hate%3A+%27 Althoug
04-01&volume=&issue=&spage=A.8&au-Casta%C3%Bleda +Perez%2C+Jos%C3%A9+Ignacio&isbn=&jtitle=The+News+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/
Abstract
None available.
Full Text
"We will not be silent. We must be the voice of our own community."
Jin Twilley
President of the Delaware Korean
Association and a Korean immigrant
For a brief moment, after all of the lights in the church had abruptly gone out, the eight glowing candles on the altar radiated the only source of light in the entire.
building.
Each candle represented one of the eight victims who lost their lives in the March 16 Atlanta-area spa shootings - Soon Chung Park, Hyun Jung Grant, Suncha Kim, Yong
Ae Yue, Delaina Ashley Yaun, Paul Andre Michels, Xiaojie Tan and Daoyou Feng.
The shootings were the culmination of a year when hate crimes against those of Asian descent rose almost 150% in America's largest cities, according to the Center for
the Study of Hate and Extremism. In this particular spate of violence, six of the victims were Asian women and four of them Korean immigrants.
Shu-Chien Liang, a representative from the Chinese School of Delaware, saw herself reflected in the lives of the victims because she is also a mother, a woman and a
proud Asian American.
"Like many of those before us, [the victims] came to America to pursue a better life for their children and their families, often taking a lower-paying job than they could
have in their native land," she said. "Although their voices have been silenced, their stories will not be forgotten."
Liang said the victims continued to work toward their idea of the American dream despite the COVID-19 pandemic and a growing amount of discrimination against their
communities. ProQuest document 1 of 1 Full Text Newspaper Asian community in state feels sting of hate : ' Although their voices have been silenced , their stories will not be forgotten . ' Those in Delaware have endured everything from racial slurs to thrown rocks Castañeda Perez , J. I. ( 2021 , Apr 01 ) . Asian community in state feels sting of hate : ' Although their voices have been silenced , their stories will not be forgotten . ' Those in Delaware have endured everything from racial slurs to thrown rocks . The News Journal https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login ? url = https : //www.proquest.com/newspapers/asian-community-state-feels-sting-hate/docview/2519427344/se-2 ? accountid = 10345 NJ Find a copy Check One Search for Availability http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88- 2004 & rft_val_fmt = info : ofi / fmt : kev : mtx : journal & genre = article & sid = ProQ : ProQ % 3Anortheastnews1 & atitle = Asian + community + in + state + feels + sting + of + hate % 3A + % 27 Althoug 04-01 & volume = & issue = & spage = A.8 & au - Casta % C3 % Bleda + Perez % 2C + Jos % C3 % A9 + Ignacio & isbn = & jtitle = The + News + Journal & btitle = & rft_id = info : eric / & rft_id = info : doi / Abstract None available . Full Text " We will not be silent . We must be the voice of our own community . " Jin Twilley President of the Delaware Korean Association and a Korean immigrant For a brief moment , after all of the lights in the church had abruptly gone out , the eight glowing candles on the altar radiated the only source of light in the entire . building . Each candle represented one of the eight victims who lost their lives in the March 16 Atlanta - area spa shootings - Soon Chung Park , Hyun Jung Grant , Suncha Kim , Yong Ae Yue , Delaina Ashley Yaun , Paul Andre Michels , Xiaojie Tan and Daoyou Feng . The shootings were the culmination of a year when hate crimes against those of Asian descent rose almost 150 % in America's largest cities , according to the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism . In this particular spate of violence , six of the victims were Asian women and four of them Korean immigrants . Shu - Chien Liang , a representative from the Chinese School of Delaware , saw herself reflected in the lives of the victims because she is also a mother , a woman and a proud Asian American . " Like many of those before us , [ the victims ] came to America to pursue a better life for their children and their families , often taking a lower - paying job than they could have in their native land , " she said . " Although their voices have been silenced , their stories will not be forgotten . " Liang said the victims continued to work toward their idea of the American dream despite the COVID - 19 pandemic and a growing amount of discrimination against their communities . "I hope we can take inspiration from their stories and work together so that future Asian Americans, and Americans of all cultures, will be equal partners of America and
fully realize their American dreams," Liang said.
About 100 people gathered at Grace United Methodist Church on Sunday evening to mourn the victims of the shootings, as well as the victims of anti-Asian violence.
Several community organizers, lawmakers, allies and representatives from local Asian American associations and schools spoke at the event, including U.S. Sen. Tom
Carper and New Castle County Executive Matt Meyer.
The candles, eight in total, were lit one at a time after the name of the person was announced and a large silver bell was rung in remembrance.
Since March 2020, Asian Americans have reported nearly 3,800 hate incidents, according to a report by Stop AAPI Hate.
David Kim, an assistant professor of digital humanities at the University of Delaware and a community organizer, described hate incidents inflicted against him both before
and after the pandemic began. These incidents ranged from hearing racial slurs directed at him to having rocks thrown at him.
"It was traumatic and hurtful but also, and this might be the most depressing part of it, it's like 'OK, like what are you going to do?"" Kim said.
The recent violence has been directed at the entire Asian American Pacific Islander community, Kim said, despite the range of diversity within it. Kim mentioned the
different ethnicities, nationalities, citizenship status, genders and social classes that compose the community as a whole.
But the Atlanta victims, Kim said, represent the "most vulnerable" portion of Asian communities and of American society as a whole.
"There exists a shared history and experience in Asian America, but it is also crucially important to recognize that this was based on their race, based on their gender and
based on their devalued labor status," Kim said, "that a 'bad day' turned into a tragedy."
Kim was referring to a press conference soon after the shootings where Capt. Jay Baker, the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office spokesman, said that the suspect had a
"bad day." The comment drew fierce blowback on social media, and Baker has since been removed as spokesman for the case.
The Atlanta shooting suspect's motives are not yet clear.
Jin Twilley, president of the Delaware Korean Association and a Korean immigrant, reiterated the importance of speaking out against the violence toward Asian American
communities.
"We will not be silent. We must be the voice of our own community," she said. "We all must know racism, discrimination and violence against Americans, and Asian
Americans in particular, is not new this year and, unfortunately, this pain we are all grieving over is not an isolated exposure problem only to Asians."
The sharp hike in hate crimes and violence has increased the amount of fear felt in Asian American communities across the country. While violence and discrimination
against Asian Americans have risen in the last year, it is not new.
The U.S. has a long history of discrimination and violence toward the Asian community. In 1882, Congress passed the Chinese Exclusion Act, which restricted Chinese
immigrants from entering the U.S. for 10 years.
Then, in the wake of the Pearl Harbor attacks, the federal government incarcerated more than 100,000 people of Japanese descent, most of whom were American
citizens, in internment camps.
Vivian Louie, director of the Asian American Studies Center and Program at Hunter College in New York, attributed the rise of anti-Asian violence in the past year to
divisive rhetoric used by former President Donald Trump to characterize the COVID-19 virus and the worsening pandemic.
"President Trump very skillfully tapped into what has been there for as long as Asians have been in the United States," Louie said, "which is the perception of them as
the perpetual foreigner, the forever foreigner."
The perpetual foreigner stereotype, which Louie mentioned, frames ethnic minorities as continuous outsiders in the U.S. who are often depicted as enemies to American
interests. This stereotype associates different minorities and people with externalized national threats to the U.S., like the trade war with China, Louie said.
In his speech at the vigil, David Kim also described the perpetual foreigner stereotype and how it has been a hallmark of the Asian American experience since the arrival
of Asians in the U.S.
"As 'perpetual foreigners,' regardless of our individual places in the U.S., it has meant that our experiences and our racial injury haven't really mattered," he said.
In addition to divisive rhetoric, sexualized and submissive stereotypes of Asian women have been linked to increasing rates of violence in the past, according to the
National Network to End Domestic Violence.
Louie stressed the importance of education in order to help curb anti-Asian violence and discrimination in the future. Asian American studies in higher education, K-12
education and community-based programs are essential to move forward, Louie said.
"That's something we can definitely do, but we can't do it if it's not on the radar screen," she said. "This is a moment of dialogue, learning and coalition building. That's
how change happens."
The vigil was put together soon after the shootings by local community leaders, Julissa Coriano, April Pags and David Kim.
Toward the end of the vigil, the power in the church went out due to a thunderstorm, but the stories continued. Attendees raised the flashlights on their phones to
illuminate the remainder of the event and the voices behind it.
"The vigil happened because of so many reasons," Coriano said. "Not only to honor the victims, not only to bring forward a bigger conversation about solidarity against
all forms of racism, but to validate the long history of pain and hurt this beautiful community has experienced."
Contact the reporter at jcastaneda1@ delawareonline.com or connect with him on Twitter @joseicastaneda.
"We will not be silent. We must be the voice of our own community."
Jin Twilley
President of the Delaware Korean " I hope we can take inspiration from their stories and work together so that future Asian Americans , and Americans of all cultures , will be equal partners of America and fully realize their American dreams , " Liang said . About 100 people gathered at Grace United Methodist Church on Sunday evening to mourn the victims of the shootings , as well as the victims of anti - Asian violence . Several community organizers , lawmakers , allies and representatives from local Asian American associations and schools spoke at the event , including U.S. Sen. Tom Carper and New Castle County Executive Matt Meyer . The candles , eight in total , were lit one at a time after the name of the person was announced and a large silver bell was rung in remembrance . Since March 2020 , Asian Americans have reported nearly 3,800 hate incidents , according to a report by Stop AAPI Hate . David Kim , an assistant professor of digital humanities at the University of Delaware and a community organizer , described hate incidents inflicted against him both before and after the pandemic began . These incidents ranged from hearing racial slurs directed at him to having rocks thrown at him . " It was traumatic and hurtful but also , and this might be the most depressing part of it , it's like ' OK , like what are you going to do ? " " Kim said . The recent violence has been directed at the entire Asian American Pacific Islander community , Kim said , despite the range of diversity within it . Kim mentioned the different ethnicities , nationalities , citizenship status , genders and social classes that compose the community as a whole . But the Atlanta victims , Kim said , represent the " most vulnerable " portion of Asian communities and of American society as a whole . " There exists a shared history and experience in Asian America , but it is also crucially important to recognize that this was based on their race , based on their gender and based on their devalued labor status , " Kim said , " that a ' bad day ' turned into a tragedy . " Kim was referring to a press conference soon after the shootings where Capt . Jay Baker , the Cherokee County Sheriff's Office spokesman , said that the suspect had a " bad day . " The comment drew fierce blowback on social media , and Baker has since been removed as spokesman for the case . The Atlanta shooting suspect's motives are not yet clear . Jin Twilley , president of the Delaware Korean Association and a Korean immigrant , reiterated the importance of speaking out against the violence toward Asian American communities . " We will not be silent . We must be the voice of our own community , " she said . " We all must know racism , discrimination and violence against Americans , and Asian Americans in particular , is not new this year and , unfortunately , this pain we are all grieving over is not an isolated exposure problem only to Asians . " The sharp hike in hate crimes and violence has increased the amount of fear felt in Asian American communities across the country . While violence and discrimination against Asian Americans have risen in the last year , it is not new . The U.S. has a long history of discrimination and violence toward the Asian community . In 1882 , Congress passed the Chinese Exclusion Act , which restricted Chinese immigrants from entering the U.S. for 10 years . Then , in the wake of the Pearl Harbor attacks , the federal government incarcerated more than 100,000 people of Japanese descent , most of whom were American citizens , in internment camps . Vivian Louie , director of the Asian American Studies Center and Program at Hunter College in New York , attributed the rise of anti - Asian violence in the past year to divisive rhetoric used by former President Donald Trump to characterize the COVID - 19 virus and the worsening pandemic . " President Trump very skillfully tapped into what has been there for as long as Asians have been in the United States , " Louie said , " which is the perception of them as the perpetual foreigner , the forever foreigner . " The perpetual foreigner stereotype , which Louie mentioned , frames ethnic minorities as continuous outsiders in the U.S. who are often depicted as enemies to American interests . This stereotype associates different minorities and people with externalized national threats to the U.S. , like the trade war with China , Louie said . In his speech at the vigil , David Kim also described the perpetual foreigner stereotype and how it has been a hallmark of the Asian American experience since the arrival of Asians in the U.S. " As ' perpetual foreigners , ' regardless of our individual places in the U.S. , it has meant that our experiences and our racial injury haven't really mattered , " he said . In addition to divisive rhetoric , sexualized and submissive stereotypes of Asian women have been linked to increasing rates of violence in the past , according to the National Network to End Domestic Violence . Louie stressed the importance of education in order to help curb anti - Asian violence and discrimination in the future . Asian American studies in higher education , K - 12 education and community - based programs are essential to move forward , Louie said . " That's something we can definitely do , but we can't do it if it's not on the radar screen , " she said . " This is a moment of dialogue , learning and coalition building . That's how change happens . " The vigil was put together soon after the shootings by local community leaders , Julissa Coriano , April Pags and David Kim . Toward the end of the vigil , the power in the church went out due to a thunderstorm , but the stories continued . Attendees raised the flashlights on their phones to illuminate the remainder of the event and the voices behind it . " The vigil happened because of so many reasons , " Coriano said . " Not only to honor the victims , not only to bring forward a bigger conversation about solidarity against all forms of racism , but to validate the long history of pain and hurt this beautiful community has experienced . " Contact the reporter at jcastaneda1 @ delawareonline.com or connect with him on Twitter @joseicastaneda . " We will not be silent . We must be the voice of our own community . " Jin Twilley President of the Delaware Korean Association and a Korean immigrant
-
Copyright 2021 THE NEWS JOURNAL - All Rights Reserved.
Subject
Hate crimes;
Domestic violence;
Racism;
Asian American studies;
Associations;
Minority & ethnic groups;
Pandemics;
Presidents;
Community;
Coronaviruses;
Education;
COVID-19;
Location
People
Title
Author
Publication title
First page
Publication year
Publication date
Section
Publisher
Place of publication
Country of publication
Publication subject
Source type
Language of publication
Document type
ProQuest document ID
Document URL
Copyright
Last updated
Database
Noncitizens
United States--US; Delaware; Atlanta Georgia
Trump, Donald J
Asian community in state feels sting of hate: 'Although their voices have been silenced, their stories will not be forgotten.' Those in
Delaware have endured everything from racial slurs to thrown rocks
Castañeda Perez, José Ignacio
The News Journal; Wilmington, Del.
A.8
2021
Apr 1, 2021
News
Gannett Media Corp
Wilmington, Del.
United States, Wilmington, Del.
General Interest Periodicals--United States
Newspaper
English
News
2519427344
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/asian-community-state-feels-sting-
hate/docview/2519427344/se-2?accountid=10345
Copyright 2021 - THE NEWS JOURNAL - All Rights Reserved.
2021-07-08
Global Newsstream
Bibliography
Citation style: APA 7th American Psychological Association, 7th Edition
-
Castañeda Perez, J. I. (2021, Apr 01). Asian community in state feels sting of hate: 'Although their voices have been silenced, their stories will not be forgotten.' Those in
Delaware have endured everything from racial slurs to thrown rocks. The News Journal https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?
url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/asian-community-state-feels-sting-hate/docview/2519427344/se-2?accountid=10345
Database copyright © 2022 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved. Terms and Conditions Association and a Korean immigrant - Copyright 2021 THE NEWS JOURNAL - All Rights Reserved . Subject Hate crimes ; Domestic violence ; Racism ; Asian American studies ; Associations ; Minority & ethnic groups ; Pandemics ; Presidents ; Community ; Coronaviruses ; Education ; COVID - 19 ; Location People Title Author Publication title First page Publication year Publication date Section Publisher Place of publication Country of publication Publication subject Source type Language of publication Document type ProQuest document ID Document URL Copyright Last updated Database Noncitizens United States -- US ; Delaware ; Atlanta Georgia Trump , Donald J Asian community in state feels sting of hate : ' Although their voices have been silenced , their stories will not be forgotten . ' Those in Delaware have endured everything from racial slurs to thrown rocks Castañeda Perez , José Ignacio The News Journal ; Wilmington , Del . A.8 2021 Apr 1 , 2021 News Gannett Media Corp Wilmington , Del . United States , Wilmington , Del . General Interest Periodicals -- United States Newspaper English News 2519427344 https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/asian-community-state-feels-sting- hate / docview / 2519427344 / se - 2 ? accountid = 10345 Copyright 2021 - THE NEWS JOURNAL - All Rights Reserved . 2021-07-08 Global Newsstream Bibliography Citation style : APA 7th American Psychological Association , 7th Edition - Castañeda Perez , J. I. ( 2021 , Apr 01 ) . Asian community in state feels sting of hate : ' Although their voices have been silenced , their stories will not be forgotten . ' Those in Delaware have endured everything from racial slurs to thrown rocks . The News Journal https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login ? url = https : //www.proquest.com/newspapers/asian-community-state-feels-sting-hate/docview/2519427344/se-2 ? accountid = 10345 Database copyright © 2022 ProQuest LLC . All rights reserved . Terms and Conditions 