7/4/2021
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=10345
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=10345
1/7
Find a copy
Abstract
document 1 of 1
Full Text | Newspapers
World: Covid-19 Fueling Anti-Asian Racism and Xenophobia Worldwide
World: Covid-19 Fueling Anti-Asian Racism and Xenophobia Worldwide. (2020, May 14). Asia News Monitor
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/newspapers/world-covid-19-
fueling-anti-asian-racism/docview/2401897187/se-2?accountid=10345
Check OneSearch for Availability
http://p9003-sfx.calstate.edu.falcon.lib.csub.edu/csub?url_ver=Z39.88-
2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Aasianews&atitle=World%3A+Covid-
19+Fueling+Anti-Asian+Racism+and+Xenophobia+Worldwide&title=Asia+News+Monitor&issn=&date=2020-05-
14&volume=&issue=&spage=&au=&isbn=&jtitle=Asia+News+Monitor&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/
None available.
Full Text
Governments should take urgent steps to prevent racist and xenophobic violence and discrimination linked to the
Covid-19 pandemic while prosecuting racial attacks against Asians and people of Asian descent, Human Rights
Watch today. On May 8, 2020, United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said that the pandemic continues
to unleash a tsunami of hate and xenophobia, scapegoating and scare-mongering and urged governments to act
now to strengthen the immunity of our societies against the virus of hate.
Government leaders and senior officials in some instances have directly or indirectly encouraged hate crimes,
racism, or xenophobia by using anti-Chinese rhetoric. Several political parties and groups, including in the United
States, United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, Greece, France, and Germany have also latched onto the Covid-19 crisis to
advance anti-immigrant, white supremacist, ultra-nationalist, anti-semitic, and xenophobic conspiracy theories that
demonize refugees, foreigners, prominent individuals, and political leaders.
Racism and physical attacks on Asians and people of Asian descent have spread with the Covid-19 pandemic, and
government leaders need to act decisively to address the trend, said John Sifton, Asia advocacy director.
Governments should act to expand public outreach, promote tolerance, and counter hate speech while aggressively
investigating and prosecuting hate crimes.
The UN committee responsible for monitoring compliance with the International Convention on the Elimination of All
Forms of Racial Discrimination, which 182 countries have ratified, has recommended that governments adopt
national action plans against racial discrimination. Plans should lay out specific approaches to combat racism and
discrimination, from enhanced policing of hate crimes to public messaging and education programming encouraging
tolerance. Governments need to take urgent action to adopt new action plans to address the wave of Covid-19
racism and xenophobia.
7/4/2021
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=10345
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=10345
2/7
Since the outbreak of the pandemic, Asians and people of Asian descent have been targets of derogatory language
in media reports and statements by politicians as well as on social media platforms, where hate speech related to
Covid-19 also appears to have spread extensively. US President Donald Trump's use of the term Chinese virus and
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo's use of Wuhan virus may have encouraged the use of hate speech in the US.
Although by late March Trump stepped back from using the term and issued a tweet in support of our Asian-
American community, he has not directed any specific governmental response toward protecting Asians and people
of Asian descent.
The governor of the Veneto region of Italy, an early epicenter of the pandemic, told journalists in February that the
country would be better than China in handling the virus due to Italians' culturally strong attention to hygiene,
washing hands, taking showers, whereas we have all seen the Chinese eating mice alive. He later apologized.
Brazil's education minister ridiculed Chinese people in a tweet suggesting that the pandemic was part of the
Chinese government's plan for world domination.
Increases in racist rhetoric have coincided with increases in racist attacks. Since February, Asians and people of
Asian descent around the world have been subjected to attacks and beatings, violent bullying, threats, racist abuse,
and discrimination that appear linked to the pandemic.
In Italy, the civil society group Lunaria since February has collected over 50 reports and media accounts of assaults,
verbal harassment, bullying, and discrimination against people of Asian descent. Human rights and other groups in
France, Australia, and Russia have also told Human Rights Watch of Covid-19-related attacks and harassment of
people of Asian descent.
In the UK, Asian people have been punched in the face and taunted, accused of spreading coronavirus. Two women
attacked Chinese students in Australia, punching and kicking one and yelling Go back to China and you fucking
immigrants. Two men attacked a Chinese-American in Spain and beat him so badly that he was in a coma for two
days. A man with a knife attacked a Burmese family in Texas.
In Africa, there have been reports of discrimination and attacks on Asian people accused of carrying coronavirus, as
well as foreigners generally, including in Kenya, Ethiopia, and South Africa. In Brazil, the media have reported
harassment and shunning of people of Asian descent.
In some instances, governments have imposed strict lockdowns that indiscriminately affect only foreign workers
without providing adequate health care, financial assistance, or other services that many workers now need to
survive. In early May, the Malaysian authorities carried out mass raids to detain refugees and migrant workers,
suggesting without basis that the migrant community and Rohingya refugees were responsible for the spread of
Covid-19.
Across the Middle East, persistent racist rhetoric in public discourse against foreign workers intensified after several
Covid-19 outbreaks occurred in densely populated segregated areas for foreign workers, most of whom are Asian.
Discrimination against Chinese people has also been reported in South Korea, Japan, and Indonesia.
Discrimination hasn't been limited to Asians or people of Asian descent. In India and Sri Lanka, where leaders have
done little to stop rising anti-Muslim discrimination in recent years, many apparent Covid-19-related cases of
attacks and discrimination against Muslims have been reported. In Myanmar, ultra-nationalist leaders have used the
pandemic to justify threats and hate speech against Muslims.
In Guangzhou in China, there have been growing numbers of cases of racial discrimination against Africans.
Guangzhou authorities have forced Africans and people of African descent to quarantine or demanded that building
owners evict them from apartments or hotels.
Repeatedly and publicly condemning racism is an important part of any government's response to the coronavirus,
Sifton said. Governments also need to adopt special public education initiatives, strengthen policing of hate crimes,
and offer support to communities victimized by discrimination and racially motivated attacks. Social media
7/4/2021
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=10345
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=10345
3/7
companies should robustly monitor online space to prevent or mitigate the spread of hate speech and xenophobic
content.
Country-Specific Cases
United States
Anti-Asian incidents have continued in the US since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, with numerous media
reports in February and March about attacks and discrimination linked to Covid-19. By late April, a coalition of
Asian-American groups that had created a reporting center called STOP AAPI HATE said it had received almost
1,500 reports of incidents of racism, hate speech, discrimination, and physical attacks against Asians and Asian-
Americans.
In one typical incident, a Chinese-American reported I was on the phone with my mom speaking in Mandarin when
a woman walked by and yelled 'get this corona virus chink away from me,' directed at me.
At least 125 of the incidents reported were physical attacks. Among the reported incidents: A truck drove by and
threw a [fast food franchise] drink on my back and yelled 'Hey chink, you're fucking nasty.' In another, an Asian-
American waiting for a bus said a man:
began berating me. I ignored him ... [then] an object of substantial weight was thrown at me with high velocity -
missing me but impacting the side of the bus with a sickening 'thwack.' Instantly, I sobered to an awareness in the
amount of trauma the object would have caused if it had struck my head.
The group also reported hundreds of cases in which Asian-Americans were harassed in public or barred from
businesses or transportation, yelled at in supermarkets, accused of bringing coronavirus to the US, or refused
transport in car services like Uber or Lyft.
On May 4, the Anti-Defamation League released a list of near-daily incidents of racist attacks and cases of
harassment from January through early May. For instance, on May 3, a stranger shouted at an Asian man on the
New York subway You're infected China boy, you need to get off the train and then attempted to pull the man out of
his seat.
From March through early May, there were numerous public reports of violent physical attacks on Asian Americans
including in California, Minnesota, New York, and Texas. NextShark, a website focused on Asian-American news,
only received a few messages per day before the pandemic about cases involving anti-Asian bias; now it receives
dozens.
Senior members of several Asian-American and other nongovernmental organizations have told Human Rights
Watch that many members of the Asian-American community they work with have experienced abuse or
harassment, or know someone who has.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and other federal agencies have not taken any specific actions to address
the rise in racist attacks and discrimination, although several state and local governments have set up hotlines and
directed authorities to investigate cases of attacks or discrimination.
United Kingdom
Several violent attacks against people of Asian descent were reported when the Covid-19 outbreak began in the UK
in February, including several physical attacks or beatings.
In early May, Sky News reported that data it had obtained through Freedom of Information requests to various
regional UK police forces showed at least 267 anti-Asian hate crimes recorded across the country between January
and March. In many jurisdictions, the figures for the first three months of 2020 were higher than all of 2018 or
7/4/2021
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=10345
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=10345
4/7
2019. The figures from the British Transport Police between January and March, for instance, showed anti-Asian (or
anti-Chinese) hate crime incidents matching the total number of complaints during all of 2019.
Stop Hate UK, an anti-racism group, reported in March that it had received increasing numbers of calls or reports of
racism, discrimination, and verbal abuse, arising from perceptions that they are members of the Chinese
community.
The senior-most UK police official responsible for hate crime nationally has stated publicly that police forces are
monitoring anti-Asian hate crime and take such crimes seriously. In a recent release of crime statistics generally
during the Covid-19 outbreak, however, police authorities focused on crime decreasing generally, without noting the
rise in anti-Asian hate crime or indicating steps they are taking to stop it.
Several of the country's local police forces did not provide information to the Sky News Freedom of Information
requests about Covid-19-related hate crimes. This raises concerns about whether they are collecting data on anti-
Asian hate crimes and whether they are monitoring and disaggregating hate crime by ethnicity, despite clear official
guidance to do so.
Russia
On about February 20, after Russia banned Chinese citizens from entering the country, the state-owned transport
company Mosgortrans began ordering drivers of public transport in Moscow to report Chinese passengers to the
police. Staff stopped many passengers perceived to be Asian and asked for identification and the number of their
metro pass to track their movements. The Chinese embassy sent a letter to the Moscow government on February
24 asking them to take steps to stop the discriminatory practice. During the last week of February, well before
Moscow was placed under lockdown, police raided several locations to identify Chinese citizens and force them into
quarantine, regardless of their travel histories.
The Russian group SOVA, which monitors xenophobia and racism, told Human Rights Watch that there had been
increased attacks against Asians since February. It also reported a wave of insulting and racist commentary directed
at Chinese people and natives of Central Asia on social media in relation to Covid-19.
A media report by Lenta on March 29 detailed several accounts, including cases of people yelling at Asians or
Central Asians on the subway or in public, asserting that the Chinese brought coronavirus to this country. Through
March, there were also reported incidents of discriminatory actions against Asian-looking people in Nizhnevartovsk,
Ekaterinburg, Tatarstan, and Makhachkala, among other places.
Australia
A spate of cases of racist abuse and attacks and vandalism against people of Asian descent have been reported
across the country since the outbreak of Covid-19. For example, there were reports in late March in Sydney of
cases in which Death to dog eaters was painted in front of an Asian man's house and of people screaming racist
abuse at two sisters, calling them Asian dogs who brought Coronavirus here and dumb whore.
Near Melbourne, also in late March, a Chinese-Australian family's suburban home was targeted with racist
vandalism three times in the space of a week: on March 20, the family found the words COVID-19 China die spray
painted on the door of their garage. Late the following night, an unidentified person threw a large rock though one
of their windows. On March 29, the door of their garage was again spray painted, this time with the words leave
and die.
On April 15, 2 women in a group attacked 2 female Chinese students at Melbourne University, yelling racist
statements such as, Go back to China and you fucking immigrants. One of the women repeatedly punched one of
the students in the head and, after pushing her to the ground, kicked her in the torso several times.
A survey focusing on Covid-19-related racism against Asians and Asian-Australians recorded 178 incidents during
the first two weeks of April countrywide. The survey, by the community group Asian Australian Alliance, has
7/4/2021
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=10345
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=10345
5/7
received about 12 reports a day since April 2, ranging from racial slurs to physical assault. The majority of racist
incidents reported - 62 percent - were against women. Australia's Human Rights Commission also reported a spike
in complaints about racist attacks. The Australian National University created a prejudice census to better collect
information about the surge of incidents linked to Covid-19.
Prime Minister Scott Morrison has criticized Covid-19-related racist attacks, telling Australians to simply stop it. Alan
Tudge, Australia's acting minister for immigration and multicultural affairs, also strongly condemned the rise in
racist attacks, and a Labor parliament member, Andrew Giles, and other opposition leaders have called for the
government to restart a national anti-racism campaign.
India
Hate speech against Muslims, already a serious and growing problem since the election of the Hindu nationalist
Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2015, increased in connection with the spread of Covid-19.
In April, social media and WhatsApp groups were flooded by calls for social and economic boycotts of Muslims,
including by BJP supporters. Several physical attacks on Muslims have also occurred, including of volunteers
distributing relief material, amid falsehoods accusing them of spreading the virus deliberately.
Hate speech against Muslims appears to have grown after Indian authorities announced that a large number of
Muslims had tested positive for Covid-19 after attending a mass religious congregation in Delhi, organized by the
international Islamic missionary movement Tablighi Jamaat. BJP officials fanned the flames by calling the Jamaat
meeting a Talibani crime and CoronaTerrorism. Some mainstream media supportive of the BJP have used terms like
#CoronaJihad, causing the hashtag to go viral on social media.
The situation grew so serious that the World Health Organization (WHO) issued a statement of caution, noting that
it is very important that we do not profile the cases on the basis of racial, religious, and ethnic lines.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi has not explicitly condemned hate speech against Muslims, but tweeted COVID19
does not see race, religion, colour, caste, creed, language, or borders before striking. Our response and conduct
thereafter should attach primacy to unity and brotherhood. We are in this together. But Indian authorities at the
national and local level have not taken adequate steps to stem the increasingly toxic atmosphere or conduct
adequate investigations of attacks where appropriate.
Sri Lanka
Several government officials have made stigmatizing public comments about Sri Lanka's minority Muslim
community in the context of the pandemic, as hate speech has been reported across the country. This includes
claims that Muslims are responsible for deliberately spreading the pandemic, along with calls for boycotts of Muslim
businesses. Muslim organizations wrote to the government on April 12 to draw attention to an increase in hate
speech in Sri Lanka.
The Sri Lankan government issued a rule on March 27 that anyone who dies from Covid-19 complications must be
cremated, which is at odds with Islam religious practice. The WHO has said that cremation should be a matter of
cultural choice and available resources, and is not necessary to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Four UN special
rapporteurs issued a communication on April 8 finding that the rule was a violation of freedom of religion and also
drawing attention to anti-Muslim hate speech and the stigmatization of Muslims who had tested positive for Covid-
19. A Muslim man, Ramzy Razeek, who wrote against the cremation rule on Facebook, received death threats.
When he complained to the police, he was arrested on April 9.
International Legal Obligations
The International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination obligates countries to
condemn racial discrimination and undertake measures aimed at eliminating racial discrimination in all its forms
and promoting understanding among all races while undertaking not to sponsor, defend, or support racial
7/4/2021
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=10345
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=10345
6/7
Subject
Racial discrimination; 
Xenophobia; 
Asian Americans; 
Hate speech; 
Coronaviruses; 
COVID-19 
Location
Italy; Texas; Spain; United States--US; New York; United Kingdom--UK;
Australia; China; Brazil; France
Name:
NAICS:
Name:
NAICS:
Company / organization
Human Rights Watch
813311;
Federal Bureau of Investigation--FBI
922120
Title
World: Covid-19 Fueling Anti-Asian Racism and Xenophobia Worldwide
Publication title
Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
Publication year
2020
Publication date
May 14, 2020
Section
General News
Publisher
Thai News Service Group
Place of publication
Bangkok
Country of publication
Thailand, Bangkok
Publication subject
General Interest Periodicals--Philippines,
General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
Source type
Newspapers
Language of publication
English
Document type
News
ProQuest document ID
2401897187
Document URL
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www-proquest-
com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/newspapers/world-covid-19-fueling-anti-asian-
racism/docview/2401897187/se-2?accountid=10345
Copyright
Copyright Thai News Service Group May 14, 2020
Last updated
2020-05-13
Database
2 databases View list
ABI/INFORM Collection
Global Newsstream
discrimination by any persons or organizations. Countries need to prohibit and bring to an end, by all appropriate
means ... racial discrimination by any persons, group, or organization and discourage anything which tends to
strengthen racial division.
The Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination (CERD), set up to monitor the treaty's provisions, has
stated in a general recommendation on combating racist hate speech that [f]ormal rejection of hate speech by
high-level public officials and condemnation of the hateful ideas expressed play an important role in promoting a
culture of tolerance and respect. The CERD committee recommends that governments undertake information
campaigns and educational policies calling attention to the harms produced by racist hate speech, and that training
for police and legal systems is essential to foster familiarization with international norms protecting freedom of
opinion and expression and norms protecting against racist hate speech.
Given the upsurge in anti-Asian and other racism and xenophobia related to the Covid-19 pandemic, all
governments should adopt new action plans to address emerging forms of discrimination and xenophobia tailored
to the new and changing circumstances, Human Rights Watch said. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights
outlined best strategies for adopting action plans in a set of guidelines released in 2014.
Source: Human Rights Watch
Copyright Thai News Service Group May 14, 2020
Bibliography
Citation style: APA 7th (basic) - No Case Changes (No Title Casing), DOI: empty
World: Covid-19 Fueling Anti-Asian Racism and Xenophobia Worldwide. (2020, May 14). Asia News Monitor
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/newspapers/world-covid-19-
7/4/2021
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=10345
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=10345
7/7
fueling-anti-asian-racism/docview/2401897187/se-2?accountid=10345
Database copyright © 2021 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved. Terms and Conditions
