A SAMEEKSHA TRUST PUBLICATION 
www.epw.in
JUNE 6, 2020 
Vol LV No 23
` 110  
EDITORIALS
Employment Insecurities in the Service Sector
Migration Commission  
FROM THE EDITOR’S DESK
Black Lives Matter
ALTERNATIVE STANDPOINT
Of Whales and Wheels: 
Buddhist Lessons in Democracy
COMMENTARY
Digital Global Warming 
Locked in a Crisis: Concerns of Rural Women 
What Is So Wrong with Online Teaching? 
COVID-19 Pandemic and Racism in 
the United States and India
BOOK REVIEWS
India’s Aged: Needs and Vulnerabilities
Women and the Puranic Tradition in India
PERSPECTIVES
Understanding Citizenship and Refugees’ 
Status in India
SPECIAL ARTICLES
Use of Algorithmic Techniques for Law 
Enforcement: An Analysis of Scrutability for 
Juridical Purposes
The Naga Homeland Movement: Historical 
Trajectory and Contemporary Relevance
PM-KISAN and the Adoption of Modern 
Agricultural Technologies
CURRENT STATISTICS
The Virtue of Maithri
B R Ambedkar argued that the state, even when 
acting at the behest of the poorest, must ensure 
that its authority does not settle into permanent 
coercion. page 10
Women Farmers and the Lockdown
Women cultivators across 14 districts in Maharashtra 
share their concerns, among others, about access 
to institutional credit and enrolment in employment 
guarantee scheme. page 15
Online Teaching and the Home
The feminine world of domestic work must always 
adjust to the supposed “impersonal” masculinity of the 
world of “productive” work, but the latter will not adjust 
to the needs of domesticity. page 19
The Virus of Racism
An examination of the rise of racial discrimination in two 
largest democracies of the world and how it can hinder 
the collective fight against the pandemic page 21
Workings of PM-KISAN Scheme
A study based on the effect of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan 
Samman Nidhi scheme on 1,406 farmers of Uttar 
Pradesh examines its implementation, role in the 
adoption of modern technologies, and benefits. page 49
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
june 6, 2020 | vol LV No 23
EDITORIALS
Employment Insecurities in the Service Sector ....7
Migration Commission ............................................8
FROM THE EDITOR’S DESK
Black Lives Matter ............................................... 9
From 50 years ago ..............................................9
ALTERNATIVE STANDPOINT
Of Whales and Wheels: 
Buddhist Lessons in Democracy 
—V Geetha .........................................................10
COMMENTARY
Digital Global Warming 
—Sekhar Sarukkai, 
Sundar Sarukkai ................................................ 12
Locked in a Crisis: Concerns of Rural Women 
—Seema Kulkarni .............................................. 15
What Is So Wrong with Online Teaching? 
—Saumyajit Bhattacharya .................................19
COVID-19 Pandemic and Racism in 
the United States and India
—Nehginpao Kipgen ........................................... 21
BOOK REVIEWS
India’s Aged: Needs and Vulnerabilities—Insights 
into the Condition of Elderly in India
—Tulika Tripathi ................................................27
Women and the Puranic Tradition in India—
Women in the Puranas
—Arshia Sattar ..................................................29
PERSPECTIVES
Understanding Citizenship and 
Refugees’ Status in India 
—Prachi Raj ....................................................... 31
SPECIAL ARTICLES
Use of Algorithmic Techniques for Law 
Enforcement: An Analysis of Scrutability for 
Juridical Purposes
—Hans Varghese Mathews,
 Amber Sinha ......................................................35
The Naga Homeland Movement: Historical 
Trajectory and Contemporary Relevance
—Kedilezo Kikhi .................................................43
PM-KISAN and the Adoption of Modern 
Agricultural Technologies
—Deepak Varshney, Pramod Kumar Joshi, 
Devesh Roy, Anjani Kumar ..................................49
CURRENT STATISTICS...........................................57
Letters ..................................................................4
Employment Insecurities in the Service Sector
7 
Employers’ strategies of pushing lay-offs and labour reforms intensify the 
precarity of employment.
Migration Commission
8 
The Migration Commission must listen to the workers’ voices and their concerns.
Of Whales and Wheels: Buddhist Lessons in Democracy 
10 
For B R Ambedkar, Buddha’s dhamma embodied an ethics of restraint and a 
sense of maithri that the state should adhere to. — V Geetha 
Digital Global Warming 
12 
We are producing an enormous amount of “invisible” digital waste, which 
will lead to a new kind of global warming that we call digital global warming. 
— Sekhar Sarukkai, Sundar Sarukkai 
Locked in a Crisis: Concerns of Rural Women 
15 
This article is based on the documentation of issues faced by women farmers 
across 14 districts of the Vidarbha and Marathwada regions of Maharashtra 
that the present pandemic has exposed. — Seema Kulkarni 
What Is So Wrong with Online Teaching? 
19 
A university teacher assesses what is wrong in visualising the online 
space as a place for regular education in the context of the pandemic. 
— Saumyajit Bhattacharya 
COVID-19 Pandemic and Racism in the United States and India
21 
This article examines the rise of racial discrimination in the United States 
and India, and argues that the stigmatisation of a certain race triggers 
racial division and hinders the collective ﬁ ght against the pandemic. 
— Nehginpao Kipgen 
Understanding Citizenship and Refugees’ Status in India 
31 
This article seeks to argue that India’s kindness for some refugee communities 
and ignorant behaviour for Muslim refugees has raised doubts on its way 
of refugee dealings, and has posed questions on the very secular face of the 
Indian state. — Prachi Raj 
Use of Algorithmic Techniques for Law Enforcement
35 
In the light of the possibility of state regulation and surveillance of social 
media, the proposed use of the technique of sentiment analysis of social media 
data to guide actions of law enforcement agencies merits close scrutiny. 
— Hans Varghese Mathews, Amber Sinha
The Naga Homeland Movement
43 
This article is a critical endeavour to understand and (re)imagine the 
relevance of Naga homeland politics in the light of its expectations in the 
neo-liberal era. — Kedilezo Kikhi
PM-KISAN and the Adoption of Modern Agricultural Technologies
49 This study, based on 1,406 farmers of Uttar Pradesh, examines the 
the differential impact of the PM-KISAN scheme on the Krishi Vigyan 
Kendra beneﬁ ciaries. — Deepak Varshney, Pramod Kumar Joshi, 
Devesh Roy & Anjani Kumar
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
4
LETTERS
Ever since the ﬁ rst issue in 1966,
EPW has been India’s premier journal for
comment on current affairs
and research in the social sciences.
It succeeded Economic Weekly (1949–1965),
which was launched and shepherded
by Sachin Chaudhuri,
who was also the founder-editor of EPW.
As editor for 35 years (1969–2004)
Krishna Raj
gave EPW the reputation it now enjoys.
Editor
GOPAL GURU
Executive Editor
Lina Mathias
SENIOR Assistant editorS
lubna duggal
INDU K
Sunipa Dasgupta
copy editorS
jyoti shetty
Tejas Harad
Assistant editors
Nachiket kulkarni
SHRUTI JAIN
editorIAL Assistant
Malvika Sharad
CHIEF FINANCE OFFICER
J DENNIS RAJAKUMAR
production
suneethi nair
Circulation
KULDEEP NAWATHE
Advertisement Manager
Kamal G Fanibanda
General Manager & Publisher  
Gauraang Pradhan
editorial: edit@epw.in
Circulation: circulation@epw.in
Advertising: advertisement@epw.in
Economic & Political Weekly
320–322, A to Z Industrial Estate
Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel
Mumbai 400 013
Phone: (022) 4063 8282
EPW Research Foundation
EPW Research Foundation, established in 1993, conducts 
research on ﬁ nancial and macro-economic issues in India.
Director
J DENNIS RAJAKUMAR
C 212, Akurli Industrial Estate
Kandivali (East), Mumbai 400 101
Phones: (022) 2887 3038/41
epwrf@epwrf.in
Printed and published by Gauraang Pradhan, for and 
on behalf of Sameeksha Trust and printed at 
Modern Arts and Industries, 151, A–Z Industrial Estate, 
Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai–400 013 
and published at 320–322, A–Z Industrial Estate, 
Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai–400 013 
Editor: Gopal Guru (Editor responsible for 
selection of news under the PRB Act)
Issn 0012-9976
Sameeksha TrusT
(Publishers of Economic & Political Weekly)
Board of Trustees
Deepak Nayyar, Chairman
Shyam Menon, Managing Trustee
André Béteille, D N Ghosh, 
Deepak Parekh, Romila Thapar, 
Rajeev Bhargava, Dipankar Gupta, 
N Jayaram, SUDIPTO MUNDLE 
On Gautam Navlakha’s 
Jail Transfer
P
eople’s Union for Democratic Rights 
(PUDR) is aghast at the National 
Investigation Agency (NIA) surreptitiously 
whisking away Gautam Navlakha from 
Tihar Jail to Mumbai on 25 May 2020, 
without informing his lawyers or his 
family. Navlakha, who is 67, was arrested 
by the NIA in the Bhima Koregaon matter, 
the infamous case that has become the 
vehicle to arrest human rights activists, 
journalists, academicians and lawyers 
critical of government actions. Navlakha 
had surrendered on 14 April and was 
lodged at Tihar jail since 25 April 2020. 
This secretive action by the NIA reeks 
of mala ﬁ de intentions. The happenings 
over the last few days bear this out.
(i) On 22 May, the High Court of Delhi 
heard an interim bail application by 
Navlakha made in the context of his ail-
ments, health issues and age, and the 
growing fear of the spread of Covid-19 
in the jail. The court had directed the 
prosecution to submit a status report by 
26 May. The Tihar jail superintendent was 
also directed to furnish a separate report 
on his health situation and the matter 
was listed for hearing four days later on 
27 May, upon request by the NIA counsel. 
The NIA had assured the court that all 
necessary measures would be taken to 
keep Navlakha safe in the prison.
(ii) On 23 May, when Navlakha’s judicial 
remand period was coming to an end, the 
NIA applied for a further judicial remand 
of one month, and Navlakha was remand-
ed to Tihar jail custody till 22 June. 
(iii) On 24 May, Navlakha informed his 
family that he had been given a single cell 
in Tihar jail in keeping with his medical 
condition. 
(iv) On 24 May itself, which was a Sunday, 
the NIA obtained from the special court 
at Greater Mumbai, without informing 
Navlakha or his lawyers, an order for his 
production at Mumbai. The application 
made by the NIA before the court is not 
available and it cannot be ascertained 
whether the Mumbai Court was informed 
of the interim bail matter to be heard on 
27 May in the context of his health and 
the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The 
order was sent to the Tihar jail superin-
tendent for further action. 
(v) Early on 25 May, a gazetted holiday, 
the NIA Special Court in Delhi allowed 
the email request sent from Tihar jail for 
permitting the transfer of Navlakha to 
Mumbai. It is unclear whether this email 
request mentioned the pendency of the 
bail matter before the high court or the 
concerns regarding his health, even though 
the Delhi High Court had directed Tihar 
jail to ﬁ le a medical report given Navlakha’s 
high blood pressure and other ailments. 
(vi) After the conduct of these one-sided 
proceedings for 48 hours, Navlakha’s 
family received phone calls on the after-
noon of 26 May stating that he had been 
brought to Mumbai by train and produced 
before the NIA Court there. Navlakha in-
formed his family that he had been given 
all of ﬁ ve minutes to pack up and leave the 
previous afternoon. He also stated that 
the process of being transferred to Mumbai 
in an overnight train without being 
allowed to contact his lawyer and family 
affected his health and that his blood 
pressure had shot up alarmingly. 
(vii) The proceedings at the Mumbai Court 
also took place in the absence of his law-
yers. Navlakha was directed to be sent to 
Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai, where at least 
one death has occurred due to Covid-19. 
(viii) News reports state that the Taloja 
jail superintendent had said on 26 May 
that they would keep Navlakha in a 
quarantine centre at Gokhale High School 
at Taloja for 14 days. 
The account provided above makes it 
amply clear that this action of undue haste 
by the NIA to transfer Navlakha to Mumbai 
can only be viewed in the context of his 
interim bail plea that was to be heard on 
27 May. The hastiness ﬁ nds no basis since 
neither was his presence required before 
the c ourt in Mumbai in any proceeding 
on any forthcoming date, nor did the 
police require him for custodial interroga-
tion. And this action effectively renders 
Navlakha’s bail application meaningless. 
The NIA also acted secretively by keep-
ing him and his counsel completely in 
the dark. Additionally, it remains unclear 
whether the information of the pending 
hearing at the Delhi High Court was even 
shared with the judge who issued the 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
5
LETTERS
production warrant at Mumbai, or the 
judge in Delhi who allowed the request 
to transfer Navlakha to Mumbai. Finally, 
despite an undertaking before the high 
court to the contrary, the NIA has put 
Navlakha’s health at risk by subjecting 
him to unwarranted exposure and 
transferring him to the state and city 
that is facing the Covid-19 crisis in the 
most serious manner. His communica-
tion with his family does not suggest 
that he received necessary prescription 
and medicines for his travel to Mumbai. 
PUDR expresses grave concern regarding 
such actions by a top investigation agency 
of the country. We express hope that 
judicial authorities will take cognisance 
of such unethical and malicious actions by 
the NIA and pass necessary orders to undo 
the wrong and to prevent such violations 
in future. We call upon all democratically 
minded people to express their opposi-
tion to these reprehensible actions. 
Radhika Chitkara, Vikas Kumar 
Secretaries, PUDR
 Structuring Bailouts 
during COVID-19
W
ith the Covid-19 pandemic, econo-
mic stimulus packages are in vogue, 
more like they are the need of the hour. It 
comes as no surprise that the opening up 
of economies in the post-lockdown era 
would take several years of resilience to 
recoup, restore and restitute the cost of 
these stimulus packages to the beneﬁ ts of 
society. While most of these new pandemic 
relief funds are to bolster a tapped-out 
small- and medium-sized enterprise seg-
ment and further facilitate clinical and 
medicinal facilities deluged by infected 
patients, in some parts, these are also 
being used for keeping aﬂ oat the unem-
ployed citizens, providing free foodgrains 
and cooking gas and keeping up with 
other similar domestic market demands.
India with its insidious problems of the 
poverty-ridden and vulnerable population 
suffering from multiple economic and 
social deprivations, particularly the mi-
grant workers, who are majorly engaged 
in informal and unorga nised sectors 
(employing a predominant percent of 
workforce), along with the health sector 
marred by a myriad of exigencies—seeks 
to attenuate the effect of the lockdown on 
its economy. With a lockdown of more than 
30 days, the economy has come to a stand-
still, exacerbated by the already existing 
public debt piling up. The soaring govern-
ment spending and disrupted economic 
acti vities may not revive completely any 
time soon in the near future to gain 
momentum in full swing. The loss of 
revenue on account of the lockdown is 
likely to take the combined ﬁ scal deﬁ cit of 
the central and state governments for this 
ﬁ scal year well beyond 10% of the gross 
domestic product (GDP), as against the 
budgeted estimate of 6.5%. At 70%, India’s 
debt-to-GDP ratio is certain to increase, as 
debt rises and nominal GDP contracts. This 
leads to an obvious question of how to 
ﬁ nance the economy in order to keep it 
sustainably aﬂ oat wherein authorities may 
attempt to dither and incompleteness shall 
be rendered by any monetary union with-
out ﬁ scal policy union or a word of caution.
Theoretically as well as empirically, for 
a country like India to run a budget deﬁ cit, 
it must resort to ﬁ nancing through public 
debt issuance, and generate a higher 
interest rate, which, in fact, will again run 
into a deeper budget deﬁ cit. The problem 
of moral hazard (popularly coexisting with 
the “no bailout principle”) and overspend-
ing by irresponsible governments will 
not help break the cycle of debt creation. 
It is the support and protection to the 
private sector from governments that 
might help achieve the initial ambitious 
growth rate of 3.5%, which has been 
slashed to 1.9% by the International 
Monetary Fund (IMF) amid the pandemic. 
Also, ostensibly, allowing each state to be 
responsible for its own debt with no 
guarantee from the centre is an option 
open to exploration; however, the level 
of political consensus required to make 
this happen is hard to implement, and is 
tantamount to a “nothingburger.” What 
is more, policymakers delve into different 
options to ﬁ nd the most socially accepta-
ble, politically feasible and economically 
efﬁ cient one, and markets keep pushing 
for a solution.
Nevertheless, the basic ideology and 
global experience state that credit lines 
must not be extended to those over whom 
no control can be exerted to curtail their 
spendings, so that the commitments can 
be expected to be honoured. Alternatively, 
bursaries may be made out from consoli-
dated sinking fund (CSF) and guarantee 
redemption fund (GRF); however, consid-
ering the amount of bail-outs rolled out 
by the various countries, especially in the 
form of callable bonds, depleting funds 
may not be the right approach as opposed 
to raising money from bonds and auction 
treasury bills. Another critical aspect is 
the power of the central government to 
seek solace under the shelter of the Fiscal 
Responsibility and Budget Management 
Act, 2003: the “escape clause,” under 
Section 4 sub-clause (2) read with Sec-
tion 5 of the said act, provides ﬂ exibility 
for the central bank to enter into primary 
markets to subscribe government bonds 
during exogenous reasons pertaining to 
national security, war, emergency, calam-
ity, inter alia. Earlier this year, the limit 
was relaxed to 3.5% of the gross state 
domestic product for ﬁ scal year 2020. 
To put it succinctly, as contended by 
many, precluding the premonition of 
Covid-19, a global health emergency, from 
accelerating itself into a sovereign ﬁ nan-
cial crisis is quintessentially morphing 
the situation to be included into Sustain-
able Development Goals. A range of attri-
butes needs to be prioritised and kept in 
mind while designing practical solutions 
to this confounding problem of funding 
for the dual Covid-19 and ﬁ nancial crisis. 
Ayush Arora, New Delhi,  
Parul Garg , Bengaluru
Corrigendum
Some corrections have been made in the 
article “Crossroads and Boundaries: Labour 
Migration, Trafﬁ cking and Gender” by Indrani 
Mazumdar and Neetha N (EPW, 16 May 2020).
The errors have been corrected on the EPW 
website.
The errors are regretted.  — Ed.
EPW Engage
The following article has been published in the past week in the EPW Engage section (www.epw.in/engage). 
(1) Digital Surveillance Systems to Combat COVID-19 May Do More Harm Than Good—Kritika Bhardwaj
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
LETTERS
JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
6
Print Edition – For India
Web Edition/Digital Archives
The full content of the EPW and the entire archives are also available to those who do not wish 
to subscribe to the print edition. 
 
India (in Rs) 
SAARC (in US $) 
Rest of the World (in US $)
Category 
Number of  
 
Number of 
 
Number of
 
Concurrent Users 
 
Concurrent Users 
 
Concurrent Users 
Institutions 
Up to Five 
6,490 
 
 
Up to Five 
 
300 
 
More than 5 
14,160 
More than 5 
250 
More than 5 
 
750
Individuals 
Single User 
2,360 
Single User 
100 
Single User   
150
Rates for Six Months (in Rs)
Category 
Print 
Print + Digital Archives
Individuals 
1,900 
2,655
Rates for One Year (in Rs)
Category 
Print 
Print + Digital Archives
 
 
(According to Number of Concurrent Users)
  
 
Up to 5 
 
More than 5  
Single User
Institutions 
5,500 
11,800 
 
 17,700 
Individuals 
 3,300 
 
 
 
4,720
Students 
1,800 
 
 
 
3,068
Rates for Three Years (in Rs)
Category 
Print  
Print + Digital Archives
 
 
Single User
Individuals 
9,000 
11,800
Concessional rates are restricted to students in India. To subscribe at concessional rates, 
please submit proof of eligibility from an institution.
Print Edition: Subscriber receives the print copy by post to the address given.
Print plus Digital Archives: Subscriber receives the print copy and has  access to the entire archives 
on the EPW web site.
Print Edition — For SAARC and Rest of the World (Air Mail)
Airmail Subscription for One Year (in US  $)
 
Print 
Print + Digital Archives
 
 
(According to Number of Concurrent Users)
Institutions 
 
Up to 5  
More than 5 
Single User
SAARC 
215 
 
 
500
Rest of the World 
430 
600 
 
1,000 
Individuals
SAARC 
175 
 
 
 
200
Rest of the World 
250 
 
 
 
300
Types of Web Access to the Digital Archives 
Individual subscribers can access the site by a username and a password, while 
institutional subscribers get access by specifying IP ranges. 
To know more about online access to the archives and how to access the  archives send 
us an email at circulation@epw.in and we will be pleased to  explain the process.
How to Subscribe: 
Payment can be made by either sending a demand draft/cheque in  favour of 
Economic and Political Weekly or by making online payment with a credit card/net 
banking on our secure site at www.epw.in. 
Address for communication: Economic & Political Weekly
 
320–322, A to Z Industrial Estate, Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, 
 
Lower Parel, Mumbai 400 013, India
Subscription Rates
(Revised rates effective April, 2019)
 Increase in Subscription RatesI
The EPW is compelled to raise the Digital Subscription Rates on account of Goods 
and Service Tax (GST) being applicable to Digital Subscriptions. The GST rate for 
Online Information Data Base Access and Retrieval (OIDAR) is 18%. The category 
Print plus Digital will also attract 18% as GST.
The subscription rates quoted are inclusive of the 18% GST rate.
Submission Guidelines
EPW welcomes original contributions that have not 
been submitted, published, or accepted for publication 
elsewhere. Contributors must specify the same in the 
article submission email. Contributors are urged to 
follow EPW’s stylesheet (https://www.epw.in/style-sheet.
html). All contributions must be accompanied by:
• An abstract of 150–200 words
• Six to eight keywords 
•  Author name, email address and contact number for 
correspondence, one-line author note for each 
author stating current designation and affiliation, 
and author photographs (optional). We include the 
provided email address in the author note.
Contributors are cautioned against plagiarism and 
excessive self-referencing. Figures, graphs and tables 
must be used sparingly to avoid repetition of content. 
All supplementary files such as figures, tables, maps, 
etc, must be provided in MS Office (Word/ Excel) or 
other editable formats, wherever possible.
The EPW editorial team reserves the right to slot an 
article in a specific section, as deemed fit.
Receipt of articles is immediately acknowledged by email. If 
contributors have not received an acknowledgement and 
reference number within a week of submission, they 
are requested to check their spam folders for the mail 
and write to us at edit@epw.in. 
Every effort is taken to complete early processing of 
the articles we receive. Given the high volume of articles 
received daily, it can take up to six months for a final 
decision on whether an article is accepted for publication. 
Articles accepted for publication can take up to 12 
months from the date of acceptance to appear in print.
Letters (Word limit: 500–800) 
Readers are encouraged to comment on current affairs 
and/or respond to published articles in EPW. Letters must 
contain the author’s full name and postal address. 
Commentary (Word limit: 2,000–3,000)
Short, analytical articles on topical and contemporary 
social, economic and political developments will be 
considered for this section. 
Book Reviews (Word limit: 1,500–2,000)
EPW commissions book reviews. However, on occasion, 
unsolicited reviews may be considered for publication.
Insight (Word limit: 4,000–5,000)
Innovative and focused analyses of social, economic, and 
political phenomena would be considered for this section. 
Perspectives (Word limit: 4,000–5,000)
Articles presenting unique viewpoints and standpoints 
on existing scholarship and contemporary phenomena 
are welcome for this section. 
Special Articles (Word limit: Upto 7,000) 
Original, unpublished research papers in any of the 
humanities and social sciences are welcome.  
Notes (Word limit: 4,000–5,000)
Short, original articles covering preliminary research in 
any of the humanities and social sciences would be 
considered for this section.  
Discussion (Word limit: 1,500–2,000)
In order to foster debate and discussion, responses to 
articles published in EPW are encouraged.
Postscript (Word limit: 800–1,200)
Short accounts or reflections on different aspects of 
culture (travel, literature, dance, music and film) will be 
considered under this section. 
Engage
Contributions to this section may be in the form of 
articles (2,500–3,000 words), photo essays, podcasts 
and videos on topical social, cultural, economic and 
political developments. For more details, visit: https://
www.epw.in/notes-contributors-epw-engage.
Copyright
EPW posts all published articles on its website as well as 
on select databases. Published articles may be 
considered for translation into Indian languages under 
our ongoing project.
The copyright of all articles published in EPW belongs 
to the author or to the organisation where the author 
is employed, as determined by the author’s terms of 
employment. 
Permission for Reproduction
1.  EPW has no objection to authors republishing or 
revising their articles for other publications. 
However, the republished article must mention 
prominently that a version of the article first 
appeared in Economic & Political Weekly. It must also 
include the publication details along with the URL 
of the original EPW article.
2.  No published article or part thereof should be 
reproduced in any form without prior permission of 
the author(s). A soft/hard copy of the author(s)’s 
approval should be sent to EPW.
Please refer to the detailed Notes for Contributors 
(https://www.epw.in/notes-contributors.html) and 
Frequently Asked Questions (https://www.epw.in/
frequently-asked-questions) section on the EPW website.
Send us your submissions on edit@epw.in.
Notes for Contributors 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
june 6, 2020
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  june 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
7
Employment Insecurities in the Service Sector
Employers’ strategies of pushing lay-offs and labour reforms intensify the precarity of employment.
T
he global scale of the economic impact of the pandemic 
has cut across sectors and industries, sparing none, 
leading to widespread lay-offs and retrenchments in 
the country. In the Indian context, the migrant labour and 
working poor employed in the informal sector were the ﬁ rst 
to bear the brunt of the lockdown in terms of jobs and income 
losses. But, the pandemic has worsened the already existing 
employment crisis in the country, wherein there were about 
30 million unemployed persons as per the Periodic Labour 
Force Survey, 2017–18.
Amidst the lockdown, the contraction in the services sector 
that employs about 144.4 million people has also led to an 
unprecedented rise in cuts in salaries or instances of deferred 
payments, lay-offs, termination of contracts, retrenchments, 
and a freeze in hiring new employees. The Nikkei/IHS Markit 
Services Purchasing Managers’ Index, which plummeted from 
49.3 in March 2020 to 5.4 in April, however, rose to 12.6 in 
May. But, this indicated a drastic contraction of the sector 
since the ﬁ rst survey 14 years ago. According to the Centre for 
Monitoring Indian Economy, the number of salaried employees 
reduced from 86 million in 2019–20 to 68 million in April 
2020, while there was no reported increase in salaried jobs, 
with the number marginally declining from 68.4 million in 
April 2020 to 68.3 million in the month of May. This has caused 
considerable insecurity not just among the blue-collar workers 
but also white-collar workers and professionals, especially in 
sectors such as aviation, tourism, hospitality, e-commerce, 
media, retail, logistics, real estate, and information technology 
(IT) sectors. 
The predicament of employees in the $190 billion IT services 
industry is a case in point. This sector merits special attention 
as India has established itself as a major player in the IT 
sector that had expanded at an unrivalled pace over time. 
The sector emerged as one of the largest earners of foreign 
exchange for the country and also helped in the expansion of 
other allied sectors. In India, several companies in the IT sector 
across the country have started to downsize by terminating 
employees, and many more are reported to be in the process of 
laying off their staff in the coming months, in order to opti-
mise and rationalise costs in the short term, adversely affecting 
those employed in the IT, IT-enabled services, business process 
outsourcing, and knowledge process outsourcing sectors. 
The tech start-ups have also been facing a decline in revenues 
due to the pandemic. According to the National Association of 
Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM) survey of 250 
start-ups conducted in April, around 62% suffered a revenue 
decline of over 40%, while 34% faced a revenue decline of over 
80%. A majority of the lay-offs have been in the venture capital-
backed tech start-ups and small and medium IT ﬁ rms dependent 
on a few large clients, even though large ﬁ rms are also reported 
to be resorting to the lay-offs or have furloughed workers. However, 
it is to be noted that in India, as well as globally, not all technology 
companies have been equally affected by the pandemic. In 
addition, according to industry experts, the IT companies are 
in a better position to absorb the adverse impact on cost, given 
their high utilisation level of employees and low bench strength 
of reserve employees who are not deployed in any projects.
However, amidst this ever-worsening unemployment situation, 
overall demand slowdown and business disruptions, NASSCOM 
has also been pushing forth labour reforms in the sector that 
would beneﬁ t domestic as well as multinational companies. 
NASSCOM has requested the state governments of Uttar 
Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Gujarat to amend 
the existing labour laws that, according to the association, 
would ease business conditions and help cut expenditure. 
Speciﬁ cally, NASSCOM has sought permission to furlough 
employees, lay-off of surplus employees, relax daily and weekly 
work-hour limits, allow women to work at night from home, 
and grant employers a self-declaratory model to comply with 
the government rules, encouraging companies to use the 
pandemic as an opportunity to transform their digital trans-
formation journeys. 
The request to state governments by NASSCOM has come at a 
time when multiple complaints have already been made to the 
state governments by the employees’ unions regarding illegal 
lay-offs and salary cuts by IT ﬁ rms during the lockdown, apart 
from allegations of perpetuation of unfair labour practices. 
The push for amending labour laws pertaining to the information 
technology sector by NASSCOM also follows the amendments to 
labour laws made by some states, which apply to factories and 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
EDITORIALS
june 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
8
Migration Commission
The Migration Commission must listen to the workers’ voices and their concerns.
T
he Prime Minister announced in a Mann ki Baat broad-
cast recently that he was considering setting up a 
Migration Commission for the employment of migrant 
labourers. It would work towards mapping the skills of 
these labourers. He also spoke of providing self-employment 
and setting up small-scale industries in villages. The Uttar 
Pradesh government too had announced a migration commis-
sion to provide jobs and social security to the workers return-
ing to that state. 
These are laudable aims and would help in reducing distress 
migration to a great extent since opportunities would open up 
at the local level. What is imperative, however, is that the 
authorities must listen to their voices in framing guidelines 
meant to protect them from exploitation. The concept of 
the Migration Commission must be debated, discussed and 
nuanced widely to ensure that the migrant workers’ concerns, 
issues and experiences are reﬂ ected predominantly. This 
would mean that their voices are institutionalised and the 
government is, thus, held accountable in fulﬁ lment of the aims 
and objectives of the commission.
But, ironically, several states have changed their labour laws 
(some changes have been rescinded), which hardly bodes well 
for these workers. The rationale behind these changes is that 
industries need to get back on their feet after the slump during 
the lockdown, and labour laws only make this difﬁ cult (a num-
ber of articles in this journal have shown how fallacious this 
logic is). These changes only weaken the workers’ capacity to 
bargain for their rights and just remuneration for their labour. 
The announcement of a Migration Commission in such a situa-
tion does not generate the conﬁ dence that the workers’ interests 
will dominate its objectives.
The migrant workers also seem to be buffeted by not only the 
circumstances beyond their control but also by the attitude 
towards them by both, the states of their origin as well as the 
destination ones. There was talk by the state, which sends out 
the largest number of migrants, that its permission would be 
needed before “our” workers are taken by “other” states. This 
received a prompt reaction from forces in the destination 
states, saying that the workers would have to seek permission 
to enter these states. Surely, these workers enjoy constitutional 
rights like any other Indian citizens to move freely in the 
country without seeking permission from either state govern-
ment. In a couple of other industrial states, the state govern-
ments were reluctant to let the migrant workers leave during 
the lockdown. When media reports clearly showed that this 
was at the behest of industry bodies in these states, which were 
worried about the lack of labour, and this led to a public up-
roar, they relented. What comes across is the utilitarian view 
towards these workers who are expected to exercise no agency 
of their own in choosing their methods of livelihoods and how 
to go about it. This was also amply demonstrated right from the 
time of the ﬁ rst announcement of the national lockdown 
through all the phases until the present.
The media has begun reporting that sections of migrant 
workers want to go back to states where they were working. 
More importantly, there are reports of various industry 
bodies in several states that are paying for ﬂ ights and buses to 
bring back these workers from their homes. The agricultural 
economy’s none too healthy state has been responsible in the 
ﬁ rst place in a large measure for these workers seeking jobs in 
faraway cities. According to reports in May 2020, 4.89 crore 
persons from 3.44 crore households sought work under the 
Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act 
(MGNREGA) works, well above the number at the same 
time last year. 
Undoubtedly, Indian metropolises, cities and towns have 
beneﬁ ted hugely by the labour of the migrant workers. It is 
harrowing, therefore, to note that at none of these sites across 
the country did they feel “at home” or secure enough to stay 
on. Nor were measures taken immediately to ensure that they 
could go to their home states comfortably much before the 
pandemic took on huge proportions. If the states of origin must 
ensure that their citizens get decent work and are not forced to 
migrate and work in abysmal conditions, then the destination 
states too must ensure that these workers are not made to 
feel like helpless “outsiders.” The objectives and aims of the 
Migrant Commission at the national as well as state levels 
must take all these factors into account. Above all, they must 
ensure that it is the voices of these workers that must be taken 
into consideration. 
the manufacturing sector. Such policies, according to the 
association, are also expected to facilitate investment in tech-
nology, speciﬁ cally in technology services and engineering so-
lutions, by improving the ease of doing business as the pandem-
ic has also catalysed innovations in digital and automation tech-
nologies. Weakening labour protection, however, would not 
necessarily bring about more private invest ment. Moreover, the 
costs of these companies’ strategies, to a disproportionately 
large degree, fall on their employees.
The pandemic is also being used to safeguard the interests 
of the companies at the expense of the employees by infringing 
upon the existing labour laws and facilitating the “ease of do-
ing business” in the time of the lockdown imposed during the 
pandemic. The states’ attitude of unequivocally taking the side 
of the interests of capital over that of labour not only reﬂ ects 
the power of employers’ lobbies, but also deepens the sense of 
insecurity among labour in general and employees in the 
service sector in particular. 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  june 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
9
 FROM THE EDITOR’S DESK
Black Lives Matter
T
he brutal killing of George Floyd allegedly by a police 
ofﬁ cer has not only led to nationwide protests in the United 
States (US), but it also had a spillover effect in other cities 
of the world. The action of the police against the victim seems 
to be devoid of the procedural reason that shapes and regulates 
the criminal justice system. It can be designated as excess in 
reason, and hence is thoughtless. It seems to go beyond the 
ethical, as it deﬁ es the harnessing power of human emotions 
that has an arresting impact on the racial outrage. It is in this 
sense that the police action is also heartless. The police action 
suggests that reason as well as emotion seem to have lost 
control over the functioning of the police. 
The police action seems to be lacking in procedural reason on 
the following grounds. First, as the images of the incident in the 
media show, such an action was not triggered either from 
aggressive or defensive resistance by the victim. Second, one 
could not hear Floyd casting derogatory or disrespectful com-
ments on the police ofﬁ cer. In fact, he was making a desperate 
plea that he “can’t breathe.” Third, the police action seems to 
have resulted from the over-criminalisation of non-violent 
offences, such as alleged use of fake currency by the victim. 
However, was the police action really in proportion to the provi-
sions and procedures given in the manual of the criminal justice 
system of the US? Finally, the police action leading to the instant 
death of Floyd necessarily throttles the due process of law that 
would guarantee justice to a victim of police excesses.
In the above context of reasoning, the absence of adequate 
procedural reason for the police action did not treat an ordinary 
offence with the ordinary means of law enforcement. On the 
contrary, it used extra ordinary brutal power of the police ofﬁ cer’s 
knees that, as the autopsy report suggests, suffocated the victim 
to death. It is ironic to see some of the police personnel on their 
knees, pleading with the protestors for peace and perhaps to 
express their collective guilt. 
The police action demonstrated that those who are responsible 
for such a gruesome killing are heartless on two counts. First, the 
police ofﬁ cers in question did not allow moral reason to interfere 
with the brutal act of killing Floyd. Such reasons would force 
the cops to refrain from taking hasty action and would make 
some concession to harshness before resorting to action that may 
have fatal consequences for the victim. Thus, the team of cops, 
particularly the main accused, could have seen in the victim’s 
alleged attempt at using fake currency an element of compulsion 
that resulted from desperation caused by unemployment and 
aggravated helplessness of many like Floyd. Moreover, in the 
extraordinary circumstances when the whole of humanity is in 
the midst of death and struggling to save and perhaps celebrate 
life, the police are expected to consider that “Black lives matter.” 
Generally speaking, actions, particularly by bad cops, involve 
either humiliating or, in worst cases, physically eliminating those 
who are considered as the adversaries of law enforcement. In the 
US context, it has been observed by scholars that the relations 
between the African Americans and the police have been less 
congenial. In the current tragic incident, the police involved did not 
seem to be in the mood to listen to a sincere plea made by a white 
woman with an altruistic hope to protect Floyd from the excess 
police action. In fact, the cop did not look happy at such an inter-
vention that would have saved a life, had it been taken seriously. 
This compels us to raise two pertinent questions. One is of 
transcendental nature, while the other one is emotive. First, how 
does a society that has a rich intellectual tradition of philosophy 
of justice, multiculturalism and “egalitarianism” allow police 
malfeasance as well as racial proﬁ ling to thrive? It is against this 
kind of a life mired with a series of injustices that the current 
protests have an unparallel moral signiﬁ cance. The protestors 
seem to assign a much higher normative value to the universal 
cause of justice that transcends much beyond the individual 
good and merges with the general good. These protests, thus, 
have another important layer of moral consciousness to stand on 
the side of justice; justice as a universal good to be shared by a 
person, irrespective of social background such as colour or creed. 
These protests appear to be equally signiﬁ cant particularly in 
the current COVID-19 crisis that poses a real danger to human 
life. The solidarity that is evident in the widespread protests in-
dicates the consolidation of social consciousness that ﬁ nds its 
determined articulation against injustice. Social consciousness 
represents an outcry against injustice, and moral consciousness 
represents the cry for justice. 
From 50 Years Ago
 
Vol V, No 23 
june 6, 1970
Rice Over Race
The overwhelming vote by which the United 
National Party (UNP) was thrown out of power 
on May 27 and replaced by a coalition led by the 
Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) reafﬁ rms the 
ﬂ exibility of Ceylon’s political system and the 
sophistication of its electorate. Ceylon’s politi-
cal parties and institutions have shown a great 
ability to reﬂ ect social change and respond to 
new social demands. 
In 1956, the SLFP came to power in response 
to the needs of the Sinhalaspeaking majority 
who had till then been denied the levers of 
power by the English-speaking elite’s control of 
the island’s largest and best organised party till 
that time, the UNP. Instead of becoming dis-
gruntled and obstructive in opposition, the 
UNP enlarged its following by espousing popu-
lar sentiments like veneration of Buddhism and 
encouragement of the Sinhala language. In 
1965, after a campaign in which freedom of the 
Press and protection of Buddhism from creep-
ing socialism were the main planks of the UNP 
platform, the electorate opted by a small major-
ity for a UNP-led coalition in which the main 
Ceylon Tamil party, the Federal Party, was the 
chief junior partner. 
During its ﬁ ve years of power the UNP fol-
lowed middle-of-the-road policies. The state 
corporations set up by the SLFP were expanded 
and new ones created although no outright 
measures of nationalisation were taken.
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
 ALTERNATIVE STANDPOINT
JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
10
Of Whales and Wheels
Buddhist Lessons in Democracy
V Geetha
T
here is a genre of tales in Bud-
dhist narrative traditions that re-
lates the ordeals of bodhisattvas 
who gave of themselves freely, to feed 
the hungry and bring succour to those 
in pain. Such giving was not merely met-
aphorical; often the bodhisattva con-
sents to a dismembering of their body, or 
body parts. Whether ruler, ascetic, ani-
mal or plant, the bodhisattva’s self-
sacriﬁ ce establishes the importance of 
the quintessential Buddhist virtue of 
maithri, the connectedness of all life, 
such that what is sacriﬁ ced continues to 
live on, nurturing and nourishing life in 
another form. 
One of the stories in this genre fea-
tures a king who gets anxious when a 
soothsayer tells him that his kingdom 
will receive no rain for 12 years and con-
sequently be devastated by hunger. The 
king consults his ministers and feudal 
lords about what might be done, and if 
the present stock of grain in the king-
dom would help the population tide over 
a reasonable period of time, before hun-
ger sets in. Sadly, it came about that the 
grain would not last for long, and pre-
dictably the kingdom is plunged into 
famine. The king decides that his duty is 
to assuage the great hunger on display, 
and resolves to give of himself. He asks 
of the universe that he should be al-
lowed to die and be reborn as a giant ﬁ sh 
on whose ﬂ esh the populace could feed. 
His wish is granted, and he dies and is 
born again as a whale. The creature 
willingly offers itself to the hungry, ﬁ rst 
turning on one side and then the other, 
till all of its gigantic body is eaten up and 
hunger kept at bay over a 12-year period 
(Ohnuma 2009: 18−19). 
In this vision of the state and sover-
eign, authority is not to be actualised 
through regulating or securing the 
state’s powers over the life and death of 
its subjects. Rather, sovereign power is 
to be realised in and through the state’s 
willingness to heed hunger and social 
suffering. Thus, a willing abdication of 
power, and a wilful taking on of pain 
and hurt in the service of the greater 
common good, characterise the ideal 
state. Importantly, the sovereign power 
that does this has recourse not to brave 
words or tantalising rhetoric; rather it 
acts, endures pain and death, is transﬁ g-
ured into a being that serves the subject, 
and the results are consequential, in a 
visceral sense. 
Wheel of the Dhamma
It was perhaps this Buddhist sense of 
what a state might yet do that propelled 
B R Ambedkar to examine its virtues 
and limits in one of his last writings, 
Buddha or Karl Marx (Ambedkar 1987). 
He argued that the state, even if it were 
to act at the behest of the poorest, would 
still need to ensure that in doing so, its 
authority does not settle into permanent 
coercion. This was to be achieved not so 
much through a system of checks and 
balances that regulates state power, 
rather it had to emanate from the state 
adhering to an ethics of restraint and a 
sense of maithri. This ethics, Ambedkar 
was convinced, was embodied in the 
Buddha’s dhamma. However, it was not 
enough to expound the latter or assume 
that once the wheel of the dhamma, so 
to speak, was set in motion, nothing fur-
ther needed be done, except proclaim its 
singularity. Rather, the dhamma had to 
be periodically renewed, in other words, 
its eternal wheel had to move, both in 
keeping with the spirit of the past that 
had given birth to it, and the needs of 
the ever-changing present. 
Ambedkar made clear that such re-
newal must heed an important ﬁ rst prin-
ciple; above all, the state had to attend 
to the problem of poverty. If that was 
not done, the very fulcrum of existence 
stood to be dislodged and the world 
thrown out of gear. Signiﬁ cantly, 
Ambedkar called attention to the long 
causal line that connected destitution to 
the collapse of the social order. Quoting 
and paraphrasing from the “Cakkavatti 
Sihanada Suttanta” (part of the Digha 
Nikaya) Ambedkar noted:
from goods not being bestowed on the desti-
tute, poverty ... stealing ... violence ... murder 
... lying ... evil-speaking ... immorality grew 
rife. Among (them) brethren, three things 
grew … incest, wanton greed and perverted 
lust. (1987: 458)
The state, then, has to act decisively, 
and with a keen sense of ethical duty. 
For it to be able to summon ethical force, 
it has to be responsive to civil suffering 
and heed the qualms of public con-
science. Ambedkar set great store by the 
latter, since he viewed it as a necessary 
condition for state action to be effective. 
Speaking in the Rajya Sabha in 1954 on 
the occasion of the tabling of a report on 
the state of the Scheduled Castes by the 
commissioner in charge, he noted with 
regret that the report was incomplete, 
and its narrative did not appear to be 
seized with a sense of ethical urgency 
(Ambedkar 1997: 895−99).
He was being cautionary as well as 
critical in this context: if the state failed 
to heed social suffering with the gravity 
it deserved, such suffering was bound to 
continue, and no amount of pious rheto-
ric was likely to rectify the situation. The 
question, of course, was: How might one 
render the state ethically accountable? 
Ambedkar located the state’s sover-
eign power in the general will, to bor-
row a term from Rousseau, and this lat-
ter, meanwhile, could be effective to the 
extent that it cultivated a nuanced and 
democratic sensitivity to social suffer-
ing. Aware as he was of class and caste 
interests that would thwart the emer-
gence of a general will, he yet imagined 
that the practice of democracy, in a 
molecular sense, and the schooling of 
the social order into the “associated life,” 
could create conditions for its emergence. 
He assigned premier role to thought, to 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
ALTERNATIVE STANDPOINT
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
11
the labour of thinking rather, in building 
such a democratic universe. 
Ethics of Accountability
During his student days at Columbia, 
he was witness to the phenomenon of 
knowledge, contained in the social sci-
ences, being pressed into service to ad-
dress and solve social problems, posed 
by unbridled capitalist growth. Those 
who upheld the claims of such know-
ledge were driven to do so, in their own 
words, by ethical qualms that could not 
abide the vast inequality that character-
ised American society in the so-called 
gilded age and after. Besides they were 
shocked by a mounting wave of strikes 
and the growing assertion of labour. 
 Responding to the latter, these men, 
known in American intellectual history 
as the “progressive,” adumbrated an eth-
ics of accountability, which they argued, 
ought to animate state responses. Signiﬁ -
cantly, many amongst the progressives 
stopped short of conceding the  political 
and ethical claims of socialism (Ross 
1991: 98−142). 
Ambedkar was clearly not anxious 
about socialism, as some of his mentors 
at Columbia were. Nevertheless, he appre-
ciated the ethics that animated progres-
sive thought worlds, as he did their 
earnest desire to deploy knowledge to 
address social concerns. However, he put 
by their insistence that such know ledge 
could only be urged forth by the “expert” 
and instead argued for know ledge and its 
wide dispersion, as well as for such knowl-
edge to be understood in broad ethical 
terms. It was not know ledge of this or that 
subject that alone ought to be made avail-
able for public use, though this was im-
portant, but learning and thought ought 
to inform public and political debates. 
Referring to the changed nature of 
politics in India after M K Gandhi’s 
 advent into public life, he observed: 
In the age of Ranade a politician, who was not  
a student, was treated as an into ler able n ui-
sance, if not a danger. In  the age of Mr Gan dhi 
learning, if it is not  despised, is certai nly not 
deemed to be a nec essar y qualiﬁ cation of a 
polit ician … The fate of an ignorant democracy 
which refuses t o follow the way shown by 
learning and  experience and chooses to grope 
in the dark paths of the m ys tics and the  mega-
lomaniacs is a  sad  thing to contemplat e. 
(Ambedkar 1989: 352) 
As for state accountability, as we saw, 
there was no doubt in his mind that the 
modern state had to be made account-
able and in more ways than the progres-
sives had imagined such accountability. 
In this instance, he was perhaps inﬂ u-
enced by British labour intellectuals, 
who held that the state ought to ensure 
“social well-being” and not merely eco-
nomic justice. Richard Tawney, whom 
Ambedkar read closely, argued that the 
state had to guarantee not only “oppor-
tunities to ascend,” but “a high level of 
general culture, and a strong sense of 
common interests.” For 
Civilisation is not the business of elite alone, 
but a common enterprise which is the con-
cern of all. And individual happiness does 
not only require that men should be free to 
rise to new positions of comfort and distinc-
tion; it also requires that they should be able 
to lead a life of dignity and culture. (Tawney 
1952: 111−12) 
The breadth and depth of democratic 
schooling and practice thus had to be 
expansive and deep-rooted in order to 
render the state capable of both acknowl-
edging and realising the obligations that 
Ambedkar imposed on it. 
To renew our democratic life appears 
more fraught than ever in the India of 
today. For we have a state that temporises 
with social suffering, and is aggressively 
nonchalant, as it offers bureaucratic and 
unimaginative solutions to the hugely 
human problems that the pandemic has 
foregrounded: of hunger, homelessness, 
deep sorrow and death on the one hand, 
and avarice, contempt for the working 
poor, and exultant state power on the 
other. We ask for bread, and are not even 
given stone in return, rather we are 
served with words that have ceased to 
mean because there is nothing to hold 
them in place, except the mechanics of 
control and obedience. 
The parables of the giant whale, and 
the dhamma chakra point to the immi-
nent collapse of state and society, should 
the notion of the sovereign good, so 
 crucially linked to the liberty and well-
being of citizens, is lost sight of. And his-
tory has many examples of how states go 
down, dragging their citizens into deep 
and sorrowful hell. 
In all this, the onus is on us to be ethi-
cally and imaginatively alert, as we look 
to reimagine our lives in fear and des-
peration, clinging on to the possibility of 
human worth and goodness of maithri. 
V Geetha (geethv@gmail.com) is a publisher 
and scholar working on feminism and caste.
References
Ambedkar, B R (1987): Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar: 
Writings and Speeches: Volume 3, Bombay: 
Government of Maharashtra.
 — (1989): Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar: Writings and 
Speeches: Volume 1, Bombay: Government of 
Maharashtra.
 — (1997): Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar: Writings and 
Speeches: Volume 15, Bombay: Government of 
 Maharashtra.
Ohnuma, Reiko (2009): Bodily Self-sacriﬁ ce in 
 Indian Buddhist Literature, Delhi: Motilal 
 Banarasidass.
Ross, Dorothy (1991): The Origins of American 
 Social Science, Cambridge: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press.
Tawney, R A (1952): Equality, London: George 
 Allen & Unwin.
EPW E-books
Select EPW books are now available as e-books in Kindle and iBook (Apple) formats.
The titles are
1. Village Society (ED. SURINDER JODHKA)
 
(http://www.amazon.com/dp/B00CS62AAW ; 
 
https://itunes.apple.com/us/book/village-society/id640486715?mt=11)
2. Environment, Technology and Development (ED. ROHAN D’SOUZA)
 
(http://www.amazon.com/dp/B00CS624E4 ;
 
https://itunes.apple.com/us/book/environment-technology-development/
id641419331?mt=11)
3. Windows of Opportunity: Memoirs of an Economic Adviser (BY K S KRISHNASWAMY)
 
(http://www.amazon.com/dp/B00CS622GY ;
 
https://itunes.apple.com/us/book/windows-of-opportunity/id640490173?mt=11)
Please visit the respective sites for prices of the e-books. More titles will be added gradually. 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
 COMMENTARY
JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
12
Sekhar Sarukkai (sekhar@gmail.com) is 
a Silicon Valley serial entrepreneur who, 
most recently, was a co-founder of cloud 
security company Skyhigh Networks and is 
currently Fellow at McAfee. Sundar Sarukkai 
(ssarukkai@gmail.com) is a philosopher based 
in Bengaluru and runs the initiative Barefoot 
Philosophers.
Digital Global Warming
Sekhar Sarukkai, Sundar Sarukkai
Throughout history, creation 
and consumption of goods have 
resulted in the problem of waste. 
Today, our most valued goods are 
digital, and we are producing an 
enormous amount of “invisible” 
digital waste. 
 
T
he 50th Earth Day has just passed 
but it was special in that it occu rred 
in the midst of the COVID-19 pan-
demic. While this pandemic has to be 
urgently dealt with, the world is  already 
immersed in a more long-standing crisis 
of global warming. It is interesting to see 
many commentators who have explicitly 
tied these two together in a larger narra-
tive of how unthought  exploitation of 
nature has major consequences for 
 human communities. However, there is 
another lurking crisis waiting to happen 
in a replay of the earlier climate crisis. 
This crisis is catalysed by our addiction 
and immersion into the digital world, a 
phenomenon that we see as being quite 
similar to global warming. We refer to 
this phenomenon as “digital global warm-
ing.” This term reﬂ ects a state of living in 
an uncontrolled smog of digital waste, 
digital data and exhaust generated by 
technologies of today. Just as the by-
products of industrialised societies, like 
the exhaust from cars, have contributed 
to global climate warming, the by-prod-
ucts of using  billions of digital devices 
and applications are ushering us into the 
era of digital global warming. 
The cause and effect of the invisible 
digital by-product that accompanies eve-
ry digital transaction can be understood 
through the framework of waste. There 
are many types of by-products ranging 
from human sewage, automobile exhaust  
and invisible chemicals, which have seeped 
into the air and earth, that constitute 
waste. Human civilisation could well be 
a chronology of how we produce, and 
then manage, waste. But waste is not 
merely dirty or something to be discarded; 
it ultimately deﬁ nes the character of our 
societies. For instance, the existence of 
physical waste produces ideas of cultural 
waste that make societies reject comm-
unities within themselves. From early 
attempts at managing human sewage to 
managing air, and water pollution today, 
the degree of social progress is deﬁ ned 
by the response to waste. Although 
 hidden and invisible, waste can affect us 
globally in terrible ways: it causes medi-
cal epidemics, poisons the air, makes 
water undrinkable, and contributes to 
physical and mental disorders. One can 
even argue that naturally occurring cor-
onavirus strains are the result of poor 
handling of waste in wet markets (as 
in COVID-19) and other human–animal 
 interaction points (such as in H1N1 and 
avian ﬂ u). 
Culture of Waste 
One’s waste is another’s fortune, as the 
maﬁ a in Italy or Mumbai can testify. By 
controlling the entire waste cycle and 
dumps, the Cammaro maﬁ a in Naples 
makes an annual turnover of more than 
$6 billion (this is estimated at $2 billion for 
Mumbai).  Waste itself leads to new cul-
tural forms, which could be called as 
cultures of waste. 
In addition to carelessly strewn digital 
waste across the visible web, the accu-
mulation and feeding of digital discards 
into data dumpsters (that we call “damp-
sters”) forms the underbelly of the Inter-
net accessible through the dark web. By 
some estimates, this dark web content—
not  indexed by search engines such as 
Google, but accessible to the public—is 
estimated to be four times larger than 
the visible web, literally forming the 
largest virtual landﬁ ll imaginable.  Web-
sites like Pastebin, and thousands of dark 
web dampsters in this vast dark side of 
the web creates an environment for the 
digital  maﬁ a to control and trade on sen-
sitive digital information, such as ﬁ nan-
cial  records, pornography, stolen creden-
tials, credit cards, private information of 
individuals such as sexual or political 
orientation, digital DNA signatures, and 
plenty of other artefacts that can be 
monetised or misused. This dumpster is 
populated by cyberattacks that breach 
data from the visible (or deep) web, or 
from the collection of callously strewn 
litter and data dumped by hackers and 
malware into dampsters. Unlike the 
physical world where garbage is removed 
from one location to another, in the digital 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
COMMENTARY
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
13
world, data is not moved but repeatedly 
copied, traded or resold, and stored 
inde ﬁ nitely outside normal jurisdictional 
controls. Hence, once someone taps into 
your digital discard, there is no stopping 
its exponential proliferation. 
Unlike the cultures of waste—which 
are special cultural ways of dealing with 
waste—certain cultures create excess 
waste as a product of their ways of  living. 
Many rich countries are prime  examples 
of cultures that promote exce ssive waste. 
As an example, the United States (US) 
produces more than 250 million tonnes 
of garbage a year, which works out to 
greater than 1,500 pounds of garbage per 
year per person. Excess digital waste, on 
the other hand, is a global problem—
leaving behind or hoarding digital data is 
cheap (and many times free for the indi-
vidual) and encourages a wasteful cul-
ture. A measure of the amount, and 
growth, of digital footprint per capita 
(much like carbon footprint) is a good 
indicator of digital waste produced by 
each country.
Social media sites lead the way in 
 encouraging a wasteful culture since it 
suits their business model. Built upon 
practices that foster addiction, which hook 
users into an endless stream of  music, 
video, and games, it results in keeping 
individuals within their platform that 
delivers these services to their users while 
continuously capturing exh aust from 
their activities to inﬂ uence user behav-
iour, which, in turn, fuels their business-
es, and the non-strategic and un-mone-
tisable discards fed to the  highest bidder. 
Personal Sphere
Not all waste that leads to digital global 
warming can be traced back to uncon-
trolled exhaust alone. The digital world 
is full of litter, voluntarily strewn around 
by users without regard to the cost of the 
waste created and deposited for eternity. 
A recent example is contact tracing app-
lications developed by various govern-
ments and technology companies to iden-
tify people who may have been  exposed to 
individuals with Covid-19. They are 
critical in addressing the pandemic, but 
simultaneously expose the perils of shar-
ing personal data that if left open can be 
used for unintended purposes by third 
parties. This accumulated stream of data 
is a gold mine for artiﬁ cial intelligence 
technologies that could be used to train 
new models without our consent to un-
cover secrets hidden in the data. As an 
example, researchers at Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology in 2019 used pub-
lic YouTube videos to train a neural net-
work model that correlates vocal fea-
tures to facial features in these public 
videos. When the system is fed a new 
sound sample, it can predict how the per-
son speaking is likely to look like. Need-
less to say, several YouTubers in the da-
tabase were not pleased with their unex-
pected starring role in the demo videos. 
Technology, through personalised digi-
tal applications, has become so indis-
pensable to our digital-ﬁ rst daily lives 
that many already ﬁ nd it impossible to 
navigate their daily existence without it. 
With the ubiquitous presence of sensors 
and technologies that can cheaply store 
and analyse oceans of data residue in 
the cloud, even our physical actions are 
accounted digitally. For example, Face-
book has been collecting “off Facebook 
activities,” which are activities an indi-
vidual has performed anywhere outside 
of Facebook. This allows Facebook to 
create a proﬁ le of every single individu-
al—whether or not they have a Face-
book account.
Even bio markers, long considered the 
holy grail of identifying what is uniquely 
personal about individuals, are now free 
radicals in the digital smog. The impact 
of the culture of digital waste has not 
left behind the realm of historically 
guarded mental states and our unvoca-
lised thoughts, either with the emerging 
big tech around “psychographic” proﬁ les 
or the emotion analytics market. The 
cost that this unmitigated collection of 
digital intelligence can have on the  larger 
society can be seen by analysing trends, 
such as social credit scores, deep fakes, and 
emerging embedded bio-sensor techno-
logies. Today, this intermingled digital 
stream of personal data with varying de-
grees of sensitivity is handled much like 
how sewage was handled in early civili-
sations: with no effective  sorting, chan-
nelling and disposal of the vast amounts 
of waste that accumulate to the detri-
ment of the society.
Regional Impact
For the citizens of Los Angeles (LA), 8 
July 1943 marked an important day as 
they woke up to a circus like atmosphere 
when a surprise attack of a mysterious 
thick grey fog descended on LA streets. It 
left kids with teary eyes, a confused pop-
ulation, and confounded speechless poli-
ticians. There was rampant speculation 
on the cause, with many believing that it 
was a chemical attack by the Japanese! It 
took  another nine years and plenty of 
face mask sales and dead-end theories 
about the cause, of this recurring “smog” 
before this phenomenon was tied back 
to automobile exhaust by Caltech profes-
sor Arie Haagen-Smit in 1952. In hind-
sight, this connection should have been 
 obvious—afterall LA was the lar gest car 
market at the time.
Smog, while not anticipated, heralded 
the success of Ford’s mass production of 
automobiles more than 50 years after its 
founding. The very instrument that ena-
bled people to conquer distance, to stay 
connected with friends and family, shop, 
travel and ﬁ nd new opportunities of 
earning a livelihood was also a silent 
killer that contributed to localised smog 
and, over time, global warming. 
It took another 20 years for any serious 
regulations in the US to help mitigate a 
catastrophic health crisis in the making. 
While regulations have reduced smog in 
LA signiﬁ cantly over the last four dec-
ades, the impact of the exhaust from au-
tomobiles is in stark view even today in 
large cities in China, India, and in many 
other countries around the world where 
regulation continues to take a back seat 
to economic progress and convenience.
What happened with cars earlier is now 
happening with new devices and appli-
cations that have overrun the world. Just 
like the gasoline engine converts gasoline 
into physical motion, these digital tech-
nologies are the engines that convert the 
telemetry of our every move into eco-
nomic gain. Not only are these devices 
more widely used than cars and vehicles 
(for example, the number of cell phones 
in use in the world is expected to cross 
5 billion by this year), but they also create 
a ﬂ ood of uncontrolled digital exhaust. 
There are over 2 billion laptops in use 
today, more than 400 million closed-circuit 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
COMMENTARY
JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
14
television (CCTV) cameras watching our 
communities, 400 million iPads, 200 mil-
lion voice-activated devices like Alexa 
and Google Home, hundreds of millions 
of smart televisions, 50 million smart 
homes, and much more. Today, in aggre-
gate, the number of digital devices in 
our lives signiﬁ cantly outnumbers the 
population of this earth, not counting 
the  multiple (at least 10 on an average) 
applications per device. 
Each one of these devices and applica-
tions generates a continuous stream of 
data that can be used for collective or 
aggregate analytics that can shape cul-
tures and regions. We have seen this have a 
profound impact on social behaviour, 
such as in Xinjang province in western 
China, or in the vast surveillance camera 
network in Chicago, or use of digital DNA 
databases to tackle unsolved crimes. All 
of which is possible only with a collec-
tion of sensitive data easily  accessible in 
the cloud.
Global Dimensions
Digital technology is ubiquitous and is 
available in the richest and poorest areas 
across the world. Thus, it is impossible 
today to merely talk of technology in the 
digitalised West and ignore the rest of 
the world. China and India are  already the 
two leading users of mobile technologies 
and are also the fastest growing economies 
of the world. There are major digital pay-
ment and other economic revolutions in 
Africa. By bringing these societies into the 
consciousness of the technological world, 
we can map the global effects of the 
 impending digital global warming.  
With increased global use of digital 
services comes increased opportunity for 
cross-border intelligence gathering from 
dampsters. State-sponsored espionage is 
not necessarily motivated by ﬁ nancial 
gains but by the need to glean persistent 
strategic advantage. In May 2019, a 
German researcher, Adrian Zenz, dog-
gedly dived into multiple dampsters to 
ﬁ nd construction requests for proposals, 
geo-spatial maps, and other data in ob-
scure corners of the Chinese internet 
that revealed a security build-up in Chi-
na’s remote Xinjiang region pointing to 
mass detention and policing of Turkic 
Muslims. This is just one example of the 
vast treasure trove of discar ded data 
that third parties can mine from these 
dampsters. 
A combination of these data dumps in 
conjunction with advances in artiﬁ cial 
intelligence has proven to be a deadly 
concoction for cross-border offences. In 
the 2016 US election, exhaust from Face-
book users that took the form of a user’s 
proﬁ le, a user’s friend network, and oth-
er inferred metadata about a user’s pref-
erence (by some accounts Facebook has 
more than 29,000 data points for each 
user) and interests was leveraged by 
Russia to create a divide among the US 
population. A similar story repeated it-
self in countries around the world and is 
expected to be the new norm in demo-
cratic elections going forward.
Additionally, countries have become 
increasingly aware of the sensitivities of 
allowing their citizens to share their 
data with foreign companies. For exam-
ple, US intelligence issued a warning to 
citizens of the US about the use of TikTok, 
a popular social app hosted and devel-
oped in part by the Chinese government 
due to evidence of spying. India took it a 
step further and banned the TikTok app 
temporarily. Social media apps are not 
the only means for regimes to seed 
surveillance technology across the globe. 
CCTV manufacturers from China, for 
example, have ﬂ ooded Latin American 
countries at (or below) cost as a way to 
gain a feed of surveillance data that can 
be controlled and processed across juris-
dictional boundaries from China.
So, is there no escape from this eventu-
ality?  We should not expect this kind of 
self-imposed restrictions on import of 
digital data anytime soon, since there is 
only a nascent emergence of understan-
ding among nations of what constitutes 
personal digital ownership rights, and 
what constitutes appropriate digital waste. 
This is complicated in a scenario where 
nations may want access to another 
 nation’s digital exhaust as they may 
view it as an untapped intelligence as-
set. Over the last few years, the cost of 
storing digital exhaust indeﬁ nitely has 
reduced dramatically with cheap stor-
age, while simultaneously, data mining 
technologies using artiﬁ cial intelligence 
and machine learning have improved 
signiﬁ cantly. This combination of cheap 
storage and maturing data mining tech-
nologies makes it more likely for many 
willing consumers of this digital waste to 
 extract strategic advantage over competi-
tion, both domestic and foreign. In 2019, 
187 countries agreed to add plastic into 
the Basel Convention, a treaty that regu-
lated movement of hazardous material 
from one country to another. Perhaps, 
it is not too premature to add digital 
 exhaust as well. 
One could argue that digital capita-
lism is a different form of capitalism in 
that waste is an intrinsic economic prod-
uct of great value. Digital waste itself 
 becomes a prime product for this form of 
capitalism. And uncontrolled growth of 
this invisible digital waste is the next 
step to digital global warming. 
EPWRF India Time Series 
Expansion of Banking Statistics Module 
(State-wise Data)
The Economic and Political Weekly Research Foundation (EPWRF) has added state-wise 
data to the existing Banking Statistics module of its online India Time Series (ITS) database. 
State-wise and region-wise (north, north-east, east, central, west and south) time series data 
are provided for deposits, credit (sanction and utilisation), credit-deposit (CD) ratio, and 
number of bank ofﬁ ces and employees. 
Data on bank credit are given for a wide range of sectors and sub-sectors (occupation) such 
as agriculture, industry, transport operators, professional services, personal loans (housing, 
vehicle, education, etc), trade and ﬁ nance. These state-wise data are also presented by bank 
group and by population group (rural, semi-urban, urban and metropolitan). 
The data series are available from December 1972; half-yearly basis till June 1989 and 
annual basis thereafter. These data have been sourced from the Reserve Bank of India’s 
publication, Basic Statistical Returns of Scheduled Commercial Banks in India.
Including the Banking Statistics module, the EPWRF ITS has 20 modules covering a range 
of macroeconomic and ﬁ nancial data on the Indian economy. For more details, visit www.
epwrﬁ ts.in or e-mail to: its@epwrf.in
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
COMMENTARY
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
15
Locked in a Crisis
Concerns of Rural Women
 
Seema Kulkarni
This article is based on the 
documentation of the issues 
faced by women farmers across 
14 districts of the Vidarbha 
and Marathwada regions of 
Maharashtra. More than ever, 
the present pandemic has 
exposed the critical weakness 
of public systems, since 
consistent expenditure cuts in 
the social sector have led to poor 
infrastructure in public health, 
the public distribution system, 
water and sanitation, and shelter 
homes for violence survivors, 
among various other facilities. 
This, along with the depletion 
of scarce natural resources, has 
added to the burden of women’s 
unpaid work. 
The author acknowledges the insights and 
experiences shared by Mahila Kisan Adhikaar 
Manch (MAKAAM) partners across 14 districts 
of the Vidarbha and Marathwada regions 
of Maharashtra. She also acknowledges the 
comments of the anonymous reviewer.
Seema Kulkarni (seemakulkarni2@gmail.com) 
is with the Society for Promoting Participative 
Ecosystem Management and is a member of 
MAKAAM. 
T
he COVID-19 pandemic context 
foregrounds the question of wom-
en’s unpaid labour more than 
ever. With depleted and scarce public 
 resources like food and healthcare, the 
demand on women’s labour is increas-
ing, forcing them to provide for care on 
the one hand and generate incomes 
to compensate for the losses incurred 
during the lockdown on the other. If 
these women are not supported in the 
immediate and  medium term, the bur-
den on their health and well-being 
would  become unbearable. 
Among the large sections of informal 
sector working women who face this sit-
uation, women farmers too are included. 
They comprise cultivators, wage labour-
ers, the landless, and those engaged in 
poultry, livestock, forests, ﬁ sheries, etc. 
They  belong to various socio-economic 
and religious groups. Most among them 
have no assets and little voice and recog-
nition as workers or as farmers in their 
own right. Women farmers’ voices have 
been less documented in terms of how the 
lockdown constraints at home and out-
side have affected them, and what they 
expect from governments in this regard.
In Maharashtra, the Mahila Kisan 
Adhikaar Manch1 (MAKAAM) has been 
 responding to the COVID-19 crisis while 
documenting a range of effects on rural 
women engaged in farming and allied 
activities. This is towards proposing 
short- to medium-term strategies for 
 reviving livelihoods, and seizing the 
 opportunity to suggest a paradigmatic 
shift in the way we understand rural 
women linked with agriculture and 
 allied activities. The author, along with 
colleagues in MAKAAM, has initiated con-
versations from the last week of March 
2020 onwards with women farmers 
across 14 districts of the Vidarbha and 
Marathwada regions of Maharashtra to 
document concerns and suggest ways 
forward. While the concerns discussed 
here are faced by women farmers at 
some level in pre-lockdown times, the 
pandemic and the subsequent lockdown 
have aggravated the situation and 
 precipitated a crisis.
Looming Hunger 
The Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana 
(PMGKY) did bring some relief to the 
poor, although it was woefully inade-
quate in both scope and implementa-
tion. A promise of 5 kilogrammes (kg) of 
free rice, and 1 kg of dal was made for 
the existing beneﬁ ciaries (listed as pri-
ority households, Annapurna and Anty-
odaya Anna Yojana) under the National 
Food Security Act (NFSA) 2013, exclud-
ing those without ration cards or with 
problems associated with its veriﬁ ca-
tion. With no cash in hand, women could 
not buy ration even as the public distri-
bution system (PDS) demanded that they 
pay for their quota upfront. The 5 kg of 
free rice announced under the PMGKY 
arrived late and, adding fuel to the ﬁ re, 
Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Pro-
tection Department, Maharashtra gov-
ernment issued a letter stating that the 
free rice quota could only be availed af-
ter purchase of the regular quota dated 31 
March 2020 (Government of Maharash-
tra 2020). While the government pro-
posed this “ﬁ rst buy one, then get one 
free” model to the poor during an un-
precedented crisis, the promised and 
much required tur dal never arrived.
Exclusion from the PDS continues 
since large numbers of single women, 
particularly vulnerable tribal groups 
(PVTGs), and Denotiﬁ ed and Nomadic 
Tribes (DNTs) are without ration cards. 
Women from farm suicide-affected 
households and single women living in 
separate homes continue to be docu-
mented in the joint family ration cards 
and are also left out. Of the 700 single 
women that MAKAAM extended relief 
work to, 200 (30%) did not have sepa-
rate ration cards and, therefore, could 
not access the PDS. With no cash in hand 
to buy from the open markets, and oner-
ous documentation required to access 
the PDS, the reality of looming hunger 
confronted several of them. The old 
 inﬁ rmities around ration cards resur-
faced in a virulent form in the present 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
COMMENTARY
JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
16
pandemic, exposing the failure of a 
 targeted PDS (MAKAAM 2020). 
Inaccessible Cash Transfers
Cash transfers were made under the 
PMGKY to about 20 crore Pradhan Mantri 
Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) women ac-
count holders, but since about 23% of 
the PMJDY accounts were inoperative 
until 2018, many rural women would 
have been excluded from this beneﬁ t. 
Those who did receive these and the  
ex gratia pension amounts, could not 
 access the cash as banks were inaccessi-
ble during the entire period of the lock-
down. Sakhubai, a widowed woman 
from the Kolam tribe from a remote vil-
lage in Yavatmal district, complained 
that the closest bank is about 40 km 
away so she was unable to go and collect 
her cash. If measures such as bank mitra 
or bank correspondents were in place to 
ensure that cash transfers reach their 
hands rather than stay in the banks, 
poor vulnerable women would have 
been able to partly tide over the crisis. 
The Andhra Pradesh model of village 
volunteers would have been useful in 
delivering cash to the poor when they 
needed it the most (Print 2020). 
No additional allocation was made 
under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman 
Nidhi (PM-KISAN), but an advance of 
`2,000 was made. Even this inadequate 
amount is inaccessible to women farm-
ers, tenant farmers, and landless labour-
ers engaged in agriculture, since the 
scheme is linked to ownership to land. 
The period of the lockdown coincided 
with the lean season when the Mahatma 
Gandhi National Rural Employment 
Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) works are 
most needed. With effect from 25 March 
2020, all works on these sites across the 
country came to a complete halt, affecting 
a huge number of workers. As per the 
2020–21 MGNREGA data, of the total 
2.2 crore enrolled workers, only 53 lakh 
were active workers2 employed on these 
sites in Maharashtra (MGNREGA 2020). 
As per the MGNREGA website, in Mah-
arashtra, 71 lakh person-days of work 
was generated in April 2019, as against 
only ﬁ ve lakhs person-days generated in 
April 2020, which is a 14-fold reduction. 
This amounts to a saving of close to `150 
crore for the government, which should 
be utilised along with an additional 
 allocation to pay for at least 30 days of the 
lost wages of the 53 lakh active workers 
in the state. MGNREGA is an important 
employment opportunity for women, 
with around 45% to 50% of MGNREGA 
workers being women. 
Erosion of Livelihoods
Rukminitai is a single woman tenant 
farmer from Savner taluka of Nagpur 
district in Vidarbha. She pays rent for a 
small piece of land and purchases water, 
cultivating vegetables and Bt cotton to 
make ends meet. This year was different 
for Rukminitai as she was unable to har-
vest her cotton fully and sell what she 
had; now she has no cash to invest for the 
upcoming season. There are no  buses to 
take her vegetables to Nagpur city, forcing 
her to largely destroy her produce. She is 
being severely harassed by the neigh-
bouring farmers who  withdraw water 
going to her farm, or provoke the land-
owner into discontinuing her lease, or 
delay her produce in reaching the  market. 
Rukminitai’s story exempliﬁ es the tra-
vails of women cultivators, while high-
lighting the differential impacts they 
face during lockdown. Cotton growers, 
soya bean and vegetable growers from 
farm suicide-affected districts of the state 
have been unable to fully harvest their 
produce, and those who have harvested 
are unable to sell it. Woman-headed 
households often do not own private ve-
hicles, and depend on private agents for 
marketing their produce, as they are 
willing to procure their produce from their 
homes. Government markets have been 
inaccessible to them not just due to dis-
tances, but also because of burdensome 
documentation required and inordinate 
delays in payments. These women have, 
thus, never been part of the minimum 
support price (MSP) scheme of the gov-
ernment, preferring private agents at 
the cost of losing out on better prices of-
fered by the government. Negotiating 
with private agents, however, is fraught 
with its own set of pitfalls and calls for 
compromises on several other fronts, 
which include obliging to  “favours” out-
side of the “market relationship.” The 
lockdown, however, has meant that 
these private agents have not been able 
to reach their homes to collect their pro-
duce. Similar stories were narrated from 
across Maharashtra whether with man-
go growers, cashew growers or soya 
bean cultivators. 
As on 2018, across the country, 49 lakh 
women were reported as being part of 
dairy cooperatives, most of them being 
smallholders (Department of Animal 
Husbandry 2019). Dairies are a big eco-
nomic support for women in most parts 
of rural Maharashtra as well. With the 
disruption in transportation, dairies were 
shut, and closure of tea shops and res-
taurants meant that even small-time sale 
of milk was not possible for these women. 
Some converted the milk into curds or 
buttermilk and tried to sell it within 
 villages. But, like in the case of vegeta-
bles, local markets for milk too became 
saturated, resulting in wastage and in-
come loss for women.
Poultry was particularly affected due 
to imaginary fears of it being the reason 
for contagion, leading to a sharp decline 
in the demand for eggs and chicken. 
Women managing backyard poultries 
had to sell chicken at prices as low as `5 
to `10 per kg, although the cost of pro-
duction was around `60 to `70 per kg. 
Tribal women, engaged in collection 
of non-timber forest produce (NTFP), 
 reported that despite advisories to district 
magistrates, the procurement of mahua, 
charoli and other produce was not being 
initiated. Collection of tendu patta and 
other forest produce, being in process now, 
requires immediate attention  towards 
auction and procurement. 
Several of these women are also 
 engaged in agricultural labour and some 
are entirely dependent on it. Due to the 
lockdown, all wage work stopped, in-
cluding that on the MGNREGA sites, and 
for those who depended entirely on 
wage work, a looming, daily hunger was 
a reality. Sugar being categorised under 
essential commodities, cane cutters 
were forced to stay on and work under 
unhygienic conditions. Among them, 
the pregnant and lactating women could 
not  access health services, and had to 
continue with their 15 hours work sched-
ule in addition to the unpaid domestic 
 labour. Distressing tales by sex workers, 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
COMMENTARY
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
17
and DNTs lacking any documentation 
and voice, are yet to be fully told. 
Even as women were coping with food 
insecurity and widespread economic 
 impacts, they were faced with violence 
and harassment in domestic and public 
spaces. State machinery ensured through 
physical violence that they did not enter 
into public spaces to sell their produce. 
They were forced to pawn the little gold 
they had to make ends meet, most did 
not have any cash or other assets and 
some were reduced to begging or de-
pending on the goodwill of fellow villag-
ers or civil society support. Impacts on 
mental health have also been severe, 
and outreach of health facilities has 
been totally inadequate. 
Urgent Steps Required
More than ever, the present pandemic 
has exposed the critical weakness of 
public systems, since consistent expend-
iture cuts in the social sector have led to 
poor infrastructure in public health, 
PDS, water and sanitation, and shelter 
homes for violence survivors, among 
various facilities. Withdrawal of public 
resources and depletion of scarce natu-
ral resources inevitably add to the bur-
den of women’s unpaid work. 
Keeping in view this context exacer-
bated by the lockdown, certain meas-
ures requiring immediate action have 
been outlined here. Prompt actions by 
various existing programmes and sche-
mes of the departments of agriculture, 
rural development, tribal development, 
forests, and women and child development 
must be converged towards  developing 
an economic package for women farmers. 
Expanding PDS: It is important to re-
emphasise here the persistent demand 
across the board to universalise PDS, as 
an immediate as well as long-term poli-
cy. As per the Food, Civil Supplies and 
Consumer Protection Department of 
Government of Maharashtra, as on Sep-
tember 2018, the total number of beneﬁ -
ciary ration cards holders under the 
NFSA 2013 in Maharashtra are 1.57 crore 
(Government of Maharashtra 2018). Con-
sidering population projections for 2020 
(12.2 crore), NFSA coverage for Maha-
rashtra would be in the range of just 57% 
(Scroll 2020). States like Tamil Nadu and 
Chhattisgarh have been able to reach 
around 80% PDS coverage with several 
innovative measures; Maharashtra, be-
ing a rich state, should also invest in in-
creasing PDS coverage above what the 
centre allocates. If Maharashtra, in this 
unprecedented crisis, decides to provide 
ration to 80% of its population for six 
months, we would require about 5.8 mil-
lion tonnes, which is just 7.5% of the 
available stocks in the godowns (FCI 
data for March 2020). This would cover 
most of the vulnerable and disenfran-
chised sections of the population who are 
badly hit by this pandemic (Sinha 2020). 
Further, for timely procurement at 
MSP, the government procurement sys-
tem needs to adopt new models enabling 
procurement at the village level without 
any  delay in payment. This would have a 
positive impact on women farmers’ access 
to fair markets.
Seeds and agricultural inputs: Prepa-
rations for the upcoming kharif season 
would start soon. Women farmers across 
the state are concerned about the choice of 
crops, availability of seed and marketing 
of the produce. Those who grew Bt cotton 
are hesitant to grow the same crop, since 
the rabi cotton  remains unsold. In our 
series of telephonic interviews, some of 
the women farmers said they would prefer 
to grow jowar, bajra and other food crops 
instead of cotton, to ensure food stocks 
that enable them to withstand disasters, 
such as the present one. While many of 
the single women we spoke to want to 
make careful choices and prioritise food 
crops over cash crops, while reducing 
the cost of cultivation with lower chemi-
cal and fertiliser inputs, they need sup-
port to make informed choices. The agri-
culture department, along with the Krishi 
Vigyan Kendras (KVKs), which are pres-
ently not providing such support, need 
to send advisories and hold consultations, 
especially with women farmers, and 
provide agricultural inputs accordingly.
 
Making women creditworthy: For rural 
women engaged in multiple livelihood 
activities without ownership of assets, 
access to institutional credit is difﬁ cult. 
They depend largely on self-help groups 
(SHGs) for small loans, or increasingly now 
on microﬁ nance institutions (MFIs), which 
often offer loans at high interest rates 
ranging from 24% to 36% (Parth 2020). 
Most rural livelihoods programmes, 
including the National Rural Livelihoods 
Mission (NRLM), focus on improving 
women’s creditworthiness by forming 
them into SHGs, thereby evading the 
question of improving their access to in-
stitutional credit. As workers in their 
own right, women’s access to credit 
should be a priority, irrespective of their 
asset holding, especially in the present 
situation. Many women are looking to 
invest in seed and other agricultural in-
puts, and livelihood assets, but cannot 
go to banks for loans. The loan waivers 
have not been implemented, and so 
fresh loans cannot be availed.
The PM-KISAN scheme and the inter-
est subvention scheme for institutional 
credit excludes women farmers, tenant 
farmers and the landless who constitute 
a major part of the agricultural economy. 
The present crisis is an opportune mo-
ment to expand and enhance PM-KISAN 
to  include all those who are engaged in 
 rural livelihoods, who should be given at 
least `15,000 annually per household. 
However, at this time, more than availa-
bility of loans, women require ﬁ nancial 
support to cultivate their farms.
Re-imagining MGNREGA: Single wom-
en and women farmers from farm 
 suicide-affected households have a major 
concern regarding the lack of enrolment 
in MGNREGA. Of the 700 women across 
14 districts of Maharashtra to whom 
MAKAAM extended COVID-19  relief, only 
27% reported having a job card. For such 
women, it is imperative that job cards 
are issued with immediate effect, which 
is especially feasible since no documents 
are needed for enrolment for job card 
under MGNREGA. 
While maintaining physical distanc-
ing and other COVID-19-related precau-
tions, MGNREGA works related to build-
ing of productive assets on individual 
farms could be initiated with immediate 
effect. These should mainly be related 
to soil and water conservation works, 
which are crucial for ensuring availabil-
ity of water in the peak summer. For 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
COMMENTARY
JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
18
landless labourers, including single 
women, these works could be started on 
community and forestlands, for soil and 
water conservation and collection of for-
est produce, to mention key areas. 
With returnee migrants, more family 
hands will be available for farm labour, 
thereby reducing the need for wage 
 labourers in farming. Keeping in view 
the single women whose livelihoods 
largely depend on wage labour, a reim-
agined MGNREGA would need to be em-
ployed by  introducing works, such as 
making of soaps, masks, compost and 
biopesticides, thus providing essential 
goods and services to the rural sector. 
To compensate for the loss of work 
during the lockdown period, an addi-
tional 100 days of work per family 
should be provided, covering returnee 
migrants as well as women and other 
wage labourers.
Mobilising local institutions: Maha-
rashtra has a vibrant civil society, in-
cluding networks of SHGs, farmer produc-
er organisations (FPOs), panchayats and 
their committees. Various social org an-
isations and non-governmental organisa-
tions (NGOs) are also active in the state. 
Participation of such local groups is 
 essential for a robust response in the 
short-, medium- and long-term  period. 
Village water and sanitation commit-
tees, MGNREGA, and watershed commit-
tees could come together to prepare 
plans for works that could help build 
 individual and community assets for 
 assured incomes, and water supply FPOs 
should be encouraged by the govern-
ment to consider doorstep procurement. 
Structural Change
Despite their wide-ranging presence in 
agriculture, women have been deprived 
of voice, recognition and entitlements in 
this sector. This historical marginalisa-
tion has been exacerbated during the 
present pandemic and lockdown situa-
tion, with a range of implications disc-
ussed in the article. As the ﬁ rst step, the 
state needs to expand and improve 
 responsiveness of a range of social and 
economic protection measures immedi-
ately, to minimise this exclusion of rural 
women and other deprived sections.
However, the epidemic situation also 
opens a window for reimagining and 
 restructuring various forms of social se-
curity and protection, along with devel-
oping decentralised models for promo-
tion of sustainable rural livelihoods and 
ecological agriculture, with women 
across socio-economic groups kept in 
 focus. It provides an opportunity to bring 
nutrition and food security at the centre 
of agriculture with the promotion of food 
crops, millets, using traditional knowl-
edge around seed and cultivation prac-
tices. This would also call for reorienting 
markets and procurement policies.
The current crisis has demonstrated 
that it is not a crisis of production alone, 
but that of social reproduction of the 
life-producing activities. The economy 
was brought under a lockdown to ensure 
life and safety of the people, but at the 
huge cost of the unpaid and underpaid 
labour of essential workers and women. 
The pandemic provides an opportunity 
to correct these anomalies.
Notes
1  MAKAAM (www.makaam.in) is a national net-
work with a presence in 22 states of the country 
and is committed to giving voice, recognition 
and entitlements to women farmers. 
2  Active workers are those workers who have 
worked on MGNREGA sites at least once in the 
past three years.
References
Department of Animal Husbandry (2019): “Data on 
Total Number of Women Engaged in Dairy,” 
http://www.dahd.nic.in/about-us/divisions/
cattle-and-dairy.
Government of Maharashtra (2018): “Data on 
 Ration Card Beneﬁ ciaries,” http://mahafood.
gov.in/website/english/PDS4.aspx.
—  (2020): “Letter from Food and Civil Supplies 
Department Regarding Distribution of Free 
Rice,” http://mahafood.gov.in/website/PDF_
ﬁ les/cr60_merged.pdf.
MAKAAM (2020): “Stories of Single Women in the 
Present Pandemic,” https://www.youtube.com 
/playlist?list=PLCtyiYx-c8q7KH58lfOdw5Dl-
s4P26JEbR).
MGNREGA (2020): “Statewise Data on Total Work-
ers and Active Workers,” http://nregasp2.nic.
in/netnrega/homestciti.aspx?state_code=18 
&state_name=MAHARASHTRA.
Parth, M N (2020): “MFI Loans: Fear and Loathing 
in Lockdown Times,” 4 May, https://ruralindi-
aonline.org/articles/mﬁ -loans-fear-and-loath-
ing-in-lockdown-times/.
Print (2020): “Andhra Pradesh Government to Dis-
tribute Ration and Cash Relief at Doorstep,” 
25 March, https://theprint.in/india/andhra-
pradesh-govt-to-distribute-ration-cash-relief-
at-doorsteps-through-volunteers/388368/.
Scroll (2020): “100 Million Indians Fall through 
Gaps in Food Safety Net, Economists Urge a Re-
think on COVID-19 Relief,” 15 April, https://
scroll.in/article/959235/100-million-indians-
fall-through-gaps-in-food-safety-net-econo-
mists-urge-rethink-on-covid-19-relief.
Sinha, Dipa (2020): “Food for All during Lockdown 
Times: State Governments Must Universalise 
PDS,” Wire, 20 April, https://thewire.in/
rights/covid-19-lockdown-food-supply-pds.
NEW 
EPWRF India Time Series
(www.epwrﬁ ts.in)
 Wage Rates in Rural India 
The EPW Research Foundation has added a module on Wage Rates in Rural India to 
its online database, EPWRF India Time Series (EPWRFITS). 
This module provides average daily wage rates, month-wise, in rupees, for various 
agricultural and non-agricultural occupations in Rural India for 20 states starting from 
July 1998 (also available, data for agricultural year July 1995–June 1996). Additionally, 
it presents quarterly and annual series (calendar year, ﬁ nancial year and agricultural 
year), derived as averages of the monthly data.
The wage rates for agricultural occupations are provided for ploughing/tilling, sowing, 
harvesting, winnowing, threshing, picking, horticulture, ﬁ shing (inland, coastal/deep-
sea), logging and wood cutting, animal husbandry, packaging (agriculture), general 
agricultural segment and plant protection. 
The non-agricultural occupation segment presents wage rates for carpenters, blacksmiths, 
masons, weavers, beedi makers, bamboo/cane basket weavers, handicraft workers, 
plumbers, electricians, construction workers, LMV and tractor drivers, porters, loaders, 
and sweeping/cleaning workers. 
The data have been sourced from Wage Rates in Rural India, regularly published by the 
Labour Bureau, Shimla (Ministry of Labour and Employment, Government of India). 
With this addition, the EPWRFITS now has 20 modules covering both economic (real 
and ﬁ nancial sectors) and social sectors.
For subscription details, visit www.epwrﬁ ts.in or e-mail us at its@epwrf.in
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
COMMENTARY
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
19
What Is So Wrong with Online 
Teaching?
Saumyajit Bhattacharya
A university teacher assesses 
what is wrong in visualising 
the online space as a place for 
regular education. In the context 
of the pandemic, the situation is 
even worse, not better, for the 
suitability of online teaching 
as a surrogate. It also has a 
particularly heinous effect for 
women, both female students 
and female family members. 
Given  the grossly unequal 
burden of domestic work that 
women share at home, often 
the female students would have 
to take up additional domestic 
responsibilities during lockdown. 
In a different situation, enforced 
carving out of silence and privacy 
in the cramped domestic space 
may imply that the mother adjusts 
her own work-time and domestic 
schedule silently. 
E
ver since classes were suspended 
in the universities of India due to 
the COVID-19 pandemic, online 
teaching using various platforms like 
Zoom is the new buzzword. Initially, the 
directives that came from my university 
were both more vaguely and cautiously 
worded. Providing e-resources and stay-
ing available online during class timings 
was advised. Gradually, the discourse 
shifted, without any explicit directive, to 
online teaching using various platforms. 
The university and college admini strators 
as well as many motivated teachers were 
all suddenly full of the Zoom experi-
ence, and, at last, it seemed as if a solu-
tion to this extraordinary standstill had 
been found. Though the Government of 
India’s cautionary against the use of 
Zoom seemed to be a spanner in the 
wheel of this new-found marvel, it did 
not dent the faith in this marvel at all—
neither for the government nor the initi-
ators—and it merely meant a shift from 
one platform to another, as if such 
threats to data privacy cannot be present 
on the other platforms. 
Mode and Access
However, data or information threat is 
not the real issue at all. The crux of the 
problem is the mode of online teaching 
itself and the access to it. First, let us 
come to the issue of access. Access does 
not merely imply the availability of in-
ternet. The mobile phone on which most 
students access the internet is not the 
most suitable medium to conduct a class; 
a laptop is the more suitable device. It is 
difﬁ cult to concentrate on a lecture on 
the phone, to stare at a small screen for 
over an hour or two with a reasonable 
degree of concentration. A recent survey 
done by the University of Hyderabad in 
the wake of the COVID-19 crisis shows 
that only 50% students had access to 
 laptops and about 45% could, at best, ac-
cess internet infrequently and further 
about 18% did not have internet access 
at all (UoH Herald 2020). This is the 
state of reality in a central university. 
 Indeed, the speed of the internet and its 
ﬂ uctuations have seen major problems 
in many metro cities, let alone rural or 
small-town India, where many of our 
students are under the lockdown. 
In a lockdown condition, stuck within 
home, there are many corners of one’s 
living space where data signal is weak. 
Further, many students do not have un-
limited Wi-Fi plans, and have limited size 
data packs. Several classes in a day can 
be a substantial cost for many students in 
the low income bracket. We know of sev-
eral instances where students go out of 
their home in open street corners to access 
the internet or free Wi-Fi in normal 
times; even such ironical possibilities 
are, of course, closed during a lockdown. 
Thus, however keen they may be, many 
students are simply not enabled with the 
infrastructure to take part in an online 
teaching and learning process. A related 
point, perhaps less discussed, is the issue of 
enablement in a broader sense. To mimic a 
class situation, a student does not only 
need a gadget and internet connectivity, 
the sheer physical space around them is 
also so crucial. The minimum one needs 
is a quiet and isolated space, where one 
is not disturbed by  others’ presence. We 
know for sure that many of our students, 
even in the University of Delhi, do not 
have such conditions at home. They may 
be cramped for space in a small apartment 
or dwelling, where carving out a silent 
private space may be physically impossi-
ble. The issue is not only about their own 
private space; it is as much about their 
family members’ privacy. Further, if there 
are two students at home, then space has 
to be created, often simultaneously, for 
both of them! This may be a handicap 
even in an urban middle-class apartment, 
let alone for an economically weaker 
family. In a small dwelling, an hour-long 
class may imply all other members of the 
household  adjust all their work and 
maintain a hushed silence. 
This has a particularly iniquitous effect 
for women, both the female students 
and the female family members. Given, 
the grossly unequal burden of domestic 
work that women share at home, often the 
Saumyajit Bhattacharya (sbhattacharya@
kmc.du.ac.in) teaches at the Department of 
Economics, Kirori Mal College, University 
of Delhi.
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
COMMENTARY
JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
20
female student has to take up these ad-
ditional domestic responsibilities during 
the lockdown; she may not have the ﬂ ex-
ibility to attend an online class when she 
is supposed to carry on some inﬂ exible 
domestic task. In a different situation, the 
enforced carving out of silence and pri-
vacy in the cramped domestic space may 
imply that the mother adjusts her own 
work-time and domestic schedule silently. 
The fact that our education adminis-
trators and many well-meaning, eager 
teachers can totally ignore the domestic 
space, is a deeper sign of our most gen-
dered behaviour. The home is always 
secondary; it can, of course, be a great 
refuge, metaphorically or really (as the 
ﬂ ood of migrants in their bid to return 
home shows). However, primacy must be 
given to the productive spheres—of work 
and productivity. When the sphere of 
work is disturbed, the “residual” domestic 
sphere has to mimic it and turn produc-
tive. The feminine world of domestic 
work must always adjust to the supposed 
“impersonal” masculinity of the world of 
“productive” work. That world of work 
will not adjust to the needs of domestici-
ty; it is almost a sin to think the other way 
round, whatever stress you may be under. 
One connected point here is that we 
have almost forgotten why this lock-
down and social distancing is there in 
the ﬁ rst place. It is a time of an unprece-
dented pandemic. For many, stress and 
anxiety levels shoot up in such situa-
tions; staying home does not imply that 
people are necessarily having a vaca-
tion. Somebody in the family may have 
got the infection; you may yourself be in 
quarantine. Apart from that, family 
members suffering from other illnesses 
are more stressed; in the event of an 
emergency, the normal access to a doc-
tor or a hospital is now jeopardised. To 
expect that all students will attend on-
line classes smoothly under these cir-
cumstances is to assume away the very 
situation that created the context itself. 
Qualitative Difference
I have been told by well-meaning friends 
that these concerns are overstretched. 
Yes, some students will miss the classes, 
but do students not miss classes other-
wise, the argument goes, do you ever get 
full attendance? Well, the difference 
 between the two situations is immense, 
and furthermore, it is a qualitative dif-
ference. First, to miss a class in normal 
times is an act largely of the student’s 
own volition; second, to miss an online 
class due to lack of access is not an exer-
cise of choice. One who is not at all keen 
to miss may be forced to do so. There is a 
qualitative aspect too, apart from the is-
sue of choice and rights. The university 
space gives access to all students to 
come from their very different particu-
larities of domestic space to a common 
homogenised space of a class-room. 
Without romanticising that space and 
being fully aware of its inherent inequal-
ities, it still brings the students to a space 
of formal equality and away from the 
particularised domestic constraints. 
This difference will obviously be much 
greater for economically and socially 
disadvantaged students, who do not have 
access to the privacy of well-endowed 
domestic spaces, and these are precisely 
the students who also have the most dif-
ﬁ culty in accessing online lectures. So it 
is a double whammy for them. The stu-
dents who need the physical university 
space much more for studying (often 
long hours in the library) are the ones 
who are deprived of it in a double sense 
when the alternative online access is 
also so shaky for them. That many well-
meaning teachers and administrators 
refuse to acknowledge the deep inequal-
ity in online teaching is bafﬂ ing to say 
the least, but may signal how deep our 
class and caste biases are in the arena of 
the teaching–learning process. 
Now, let us come back to the issue of 
online teaching itself. Can it be a surrogate 
for or surpass real time physical teaching 
in class? The issue may be of crucial im-
portance, even though many may agree 
that it is merely a temporary stopgap 
measure and such anxieties are mis-
placed. That is because, for quite a few 
years now, online teaching is being ad-
vocated as the future of higher education 
in India by our education planners. Vari-
ous documents and statements of the 
high functionaries of the Ministry of 
 Human Resources Development (MHRD), 
University Grants Commission (UGC) and 
NITI Aayog have advocated the greater 
use of online teaching and committing 
resources for that (Businessworld 2020). 
There is also an explicit idea, reiterated 
often, to advance online teaching as a 
means to increase India’s gross enrol-
ment ratio in higher education (MHRD 
2019). The pandemic, like in many other 
ﬁ elds, is a perfect opportunity to intro-
duce measures that are otherwise difﬁ -
cult to introduce in normal times (UGC 
2020). The UGC chairman, in a recent 
statement on promotion of online educa-
tion, has been quoted to have said, 
We are seeing at this time of Covid-19 and 
even later when all of this over, to give a 
push to online education. It is important for 
improvement in the gross enrolment ratio 
(GER) in the country. (News18 India 2020)
Thus, once introduced in this manner, 
online teaching may become a perma-
nent feature of the university education 
structure in the future. 
The issue of the efﬁ cacy of online 
teaching should be discussed indepen-
dently, quite apart from the issues of 
general accessibility and particular, suit-
ability in this unprecedented conjuncture. 
Does the virtual space have complete-
ness to be a teaching–learning space? Sure, 
there are many online courses, which are 
interesting and of great value. Students 
or the public in general can access those 
or learn from those. However, to confuse 
and conﬂ ate such online courses and 
curricula with teaching in the physical 
space does the greatest disservice to any 
meaningful discourse on education, par-
ticularly in the context of the immense 
transformatory potential that university 
education has for the deprived sections 
of India. The physical space of the uni-
versity, in general, and the classroom, in 
particular, are not merely a space for the 
transaction of knowledge that can be 
surrogated in other transactional forms. 
A large number of our educational 
“experts” seem to have a view like that. 
There are obvious issues, such as labora-
tory-based courses. We hear about the 
possibilities of virtual labs. These are 
fancy ideas without any base, often pro-
posed by people who have no idea about 
what goes on in a lab. Are the chemistry 
experiments going to be virtual, without 
handling the chemicals at all? This is 
like learning driving on a simulator 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
COMMENTARY
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
21
without ever touching the actual steer-
ing wheel of a car. However, much more 
fundamental to such serious logistical 
issues is the fact that the classroom by 
itself is a radical and transformatory 
space for many. It creates an alternative 
sociality; it is often a space for lasting 
friendship; it has the potential to break 
the bonds of the social givens, particu-
larly if nurtured consciously in that di-
rection by the teachers. It is also a space, 
if nurtured with care, which encourages 
one to speak out and question. 
The gains are not only for the less-en-
abled; those from endowed classes also 
get exposed to a larger sociality of their 
co-students from varied backgrounds. 
It is, thus, the space of the class that 
 enables one not only to learn but also to 
share, question, laugh and develop deep 
intersubjective relations. All this is terri-
bly lacking in the virtual space of online 
teaching. Even if the jokes are mimicked 
and question–answers incorporated in 
the virtual space, the relationships are 
largely ephemeral, lacking the concrete-
ness and durability of relationships in a 
physical space. 
It is, thus, when all the strands of ar-
gument developed above are brought 
together that one comprehends what is 
so wrong in visualising the online space 
as a place for regular education. In the 
context of the pandemic, the situation is 
even worse, not better, for the suitability 
of the surrogacy of online teaching.
References
Businessworld (2020): “We in the Government Are 
a Facilitator of Online Learning in India: NITI 
Aayog CEO,” 10 September, http://bweducation.
businessworld.in/article/We-In-The-Govern-
ment-Are-A-Facilitator-Of-Online-Learning-In-
India-NITI-Aayog-CEO-/10-09-2019-175873/.
MHRD (2019): “Draft National Education Policy 
2019,” https://mhrd.gov.in/sites/upload_ﬁ les/
mhrd/ﬁ les/Draft_NEP_2019_EN_Revised.pdf.
News18 India (2020): “Online Education a Contin-
gency Measure during Covid-19 Lockdown and 
Not Long-term Strategy, Say Experts,” 17 April, 
https://www.news18.com/news/india/online-
education-a-contingency-measure-during-cov-
id-19-lockdown-and-not-long-term-strategy-
say-experts-2581297.html.
UGC (2020): “Let Covid Not Stop You from Learning,” 
University Grants Commission, https://www.
ugc.ac.in/pdfnews/1573010_On-Line-Learn-
ing---ICT-initiatives-of-MHRD-and-UGC.pdf.
UoH Herald (2020): “Proposal for Online Classes 
Elicits Mixed Responses from UoH Students: 
Survey,” http://herald.uohyd.ac.in/proposal-
for-online-classes-elicits-mixed-responses-
from-uoh-students-survey.
The author thanks the anonymous reviewer for 
their comments.
Nehginpao Kipgen (nkipgen@jgu.edu.in)  
teaches at the Center for Southeast Asian 
Studies, Jindal School of International Affairs, 
O P Jindal Global University, Sonipat. 
COVID-19 Pandemic and Racism 
in the United States and India
Nehginpao Kipgen 
The novel coronavirus or COVID-19 
pandemic has changed the world 
in many ways. Among the several 
implications for humanity, is the 
lesser talked-about issue of racism 
that has inherent psychological 
impacts. This article examines the 
rise of racial discrimination in the 
two largest democracies of the 
world—the United States and India.
It argues that the stigmatisation 
of a certain race triggers racial 
division and hinders the collective 
ﬁ ght against the pandemic, and 
can be as deadly and dangerous to 
humanity as the virus itself.
T
he novel coronavirus (also known 
as COVID-19) pandemic changed 
the world in many ways. Of the 
several implications for humanity, the 
issues of health concerns and the rapid 
decline of economy has undoubtedly 
taken centre stage. With many countries 
declaring lockdowns and/or social dis-
tancing due to the virus outbreak, there 
were several instances of racial discrimi-
nation across the world, including verbal 
and physical attacks. While the virus 
itself had given tremendous hardships 
to humanity, the stigmatisation of a 
certain people was quite unfortunate. 
This article analyses racial discrimina-
tion in the two largest democracies of 
the world—the United States (US) and 
India—following the outbreak of COV-
ID-19 virus in late 2019, and argues that 
the stigmatisation of a certain people 
triggers inherent racial division and 
hinders the collective ﬁ ght against the 
pandemic. It also argues that racism 
can be as deadly and dangerous to 
humanity as the virus itself.
The US and India are exa mined in this 
article for three reasons. First, the US and 
India are the two largest democracies of 
the world grappling with racism. Second, 
there were evidence of increased racial 
discrimi nation and stigmatisation in the 
two countries following the outbreak of the 
virus. Third, both countries are diversely 
populated, having a sizeable population 
of the racial group in question—the 
Mongoloid. This article, however, does 
not mean to suggest that there were/are 
no other forms of discrimination towards 
other racial or ethnic groups in the two 
countries. For example, in the US, there 
are different levels or forms of racism 
against the blacks and the Hispanic 
population. Similarly, in India, there are 
several forms of discrimination against 
people of lower castes, particularly the 
Dalits, or even anti-Muslim sentiment 
across the country following the alleged 
spread of the virus from an Islamic 
 seminary (Gettleman et al 2020). There 
were also reports of racism against the 
Chinese and other Asians elsewhere 
around the world. This article examines 
only the spike of racism or discrimina-
tion against the Chinese and other 
Asians of the same Mongoloid group in 
the US and in India following the out-
break of coronavirus in December 2019 
and the spread of the disease across the 
globe (Page et al 2020). Moreover, the 
analysis and argument of this article is 
based on data available from news me-
dia reports, commentaries, statements 
from government leaders and/or civil 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
COMMENTARY
JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
22
society organisations, as well as the 
 author’s own observations. 
Racism
Camara Phyllis Jones in her work “Levels 
of Racism: A Theoretic Framework and a 
Gardener’s Tale” presents a theoretical 
framework for understanding racism at 
three different levels—institutionalised 
racism, personally mediated racism, and 
internalised racism. Institutionalised rac-
ism is manifested in societies where there 
are different levels of access to goods, 
services, and opportunities, and it may 
sometimes be legalised or institution-
alised and become an “inherited disad-
vantage.” Personally mediated racism is 
the assumption about others in terms of 
their abilities, motives, intentions based 
on their race, and it “can be intentional 
as well as unintentional, and it includes 
acts of commission as well as acts of 
omission.” Internalised racism is the 
acceptance of negative messages by the 
stigmatised race and it “involves accept-
ing limitations to one’s own full huma-
nity, including one’s spectrum of dreams, 
one’s right to self-determination, and 
one’s range of allowable self-expressions” 
(Jones 2000: 1212–13). 
There are also situations where indi-
viduals may deny racism or the practice 
of it, but acknowledge that some or many 
members of the group or even the entire 
group do not have the same tolerance 
towards other ethnic or racial groups. 
And the act of denials can also come in 
different forms—explicit, implicit or 
pre-emptive. Some may intentionally or 
unintentionally engage in racial slurs 
but deny that there are any negative 
connotations to them. Some others may 
also use racial inferences without directly 
targeting any particular individual or 
individuals (Dijk 1992). Similarly, there 
can be “aversive racism” in which the 
racists recognise and believe in egali-
tarianism and do not want to be seen as 
prejudiced, and therefore, would not 
engage in discriminatory activities when 
things are too obvious to themselves 
and others (Dovidio and Gaertner 2000, 
2004). The concepts of “personally medi-
ated racism” and “aversive racism” are 
helpful in understanding coronavirus-
related racism in the US and India.
The novel coronavirus outbreak in 
Wuhan was ofﬁ cially reported to the 
World Health Organization (WHO) coun-
try ofﬁ ce in China on 31 December 2019. 
The WHO declared the virus as a public 
health emergency of international con-
cern on 30 January 2020 (WHO 2020). 
China conﬁ rmed its ﬁ rst coronavirus 
death on 11 January 2020. China imposed 
strict lockdown on 23 January 2020 in 
Wuhan. And on 5 February 2020, the 
Diamond Princess cruise ship carrying 
more than 3,600 passengers was quar-
antined off the coast of Yokohama in 
Japan. On 11 February 2020, the WHO re-
named the novel coronavirus as COVID-19, 
and the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention (CDC) conﬁ rmed the ﬁ rst case 
of suspected local transmission in the US 
on 26 February 2020. Subsequently, the 
ﬁ rst death was reported in the US on 
29 February (Schumaker 2020). At the 
time of writing this article, the cause 
of the virus was still something the 
scientists were working hard to under-
stand, especially how the virus passed on 
from animals to human beings. Stephen 
Turner, head of the department of micro-
biology at Monash University, said that 
most likely the virus originated from 
bats (Readfearn 2020).
Outbreak in the United States
The US conﬁ rmed the ﬁ rst coronavirus 
case on 21 January 2020 and subsequently 
on 29 January, the White House formed 
a task force to help monitor and contain 
the spread of the disease. Just a day after 
on 30 January, the US conﬁ rmed its ﬁ rst 
case of human-to-human transmission. 
Then on 31 January, the US government 
announced that it would deny entry to 
any foreign national who had visited 
China in the last 14 days, which the 
Chinese government accused Washington 
of spreading fear by enforcing travel 
restrictions. A 60-year-old American 
national died in Wuhan on 6 February. 
The National Institutes of Health had 
begun a clinical trial of the virus on 
25 February, which was followed by 
President Donald Trump nominating Vice 
President Mike Pence in charge of the 
government’s response to the pandemic 
on 26 February. On 11 March, the Trump 
administration restricted travel from 
Europe for 30 days in an attempt to ﬁ ght 
against the virus, and on 13 March the 
government declared a national emer-
gency to free up $50 billion to combat 
the virus. On 18 March, Trump signed a 
coronavirus relief package, including 
free testing and paid emergency leave. 
On 27 March, Trump signed a stimulus 
package of $2 trillion, which was one of 
the most expensive relief measures passed 
in the history of the US Congress. And 
on 3 April, the Trump administration 
recommended all Americans to wear face 
masks, which it previously said was not 
necessary for people who were not sick 
(CNN Editorial Research 2020).
‘Chinese Virus’ and Racism
With the surge in coronavirus cases in 
the US, racism against the people of 
Chinese-descent and other Asians had 
also increased. The use of the term 
“Chinese virus” by Trump had appar-
ently contri buted to racial attacks against 
the Asian Americans. Instead of trying 
to stop racial discrimination against the 
Chinese and other Asian Americans, 
Trump defended the use of the term 
“Chinese virus” during his White House 
press brieﬁ ng on 18 March. Though 
health ofﬁ cials advised against using the 
term which had caused dozens of biases 
against the Chinese Americans, Trump 
defended his position and said, “It’s not 
racist at all” and that he wanted “to be 
accurate” because the virus “comes from 
China.” The White House justiﬁ ed the 
President’s remarks by saying that a 
number of past pandemics were also 
known by their places of origin or where 
they were believed to have originated, 
such as the Spanish Flu, West Nile Virus, 
Zika and Ebola. Not only the president 
but his close associates, including the 
Permission for Reproduction of 
Articles Published in EPW 
No article published in EPW or part thereof 
should be reproduced in any form without 
prior permission of the author(s). 
A soft/hard copy of the author(s)’s approval 
should be sent to EPW. 
In cases where the email address of the 
author has not been published along with 
the articles, EPW can be contacted for help.
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
COMMENTARY
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
23
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo used 
the term “Wuhan virus” (Mangan 2020). 
Many had condemned Trump’s use 
and defence of the term “Chinese virus.” 
On 10 March, the director of the CDC, 
Robert Redﬁ eld, said, “It’s absolutely 
wrong and inappropriate to call this the 
Chinese coronavirus” (Tucker 2020). The 
executive director of WHO’s emergencies 
programme, Mike Ryan, said: 
Viruses know no borders and they don’t care 
about your ethnicity, the color of your skin 
or how much money you have in the bank … 
So it’s really important we be careful in the 
language we use lest it lead to the proﬁ ling 
of individuals associated with the virus. 
Former Vice President Joe Biden had 
earlier tweeted in response to Trump 
that “A wall won’t stop a virus. Racism 
won’t stop a virus. Do your job” (Mangan 
2020). Charissa Cheah, a psychology 
professor at the University of Maryland—
Baltimore County—who had conducted 
a survey on coronavirus-related discrimi-
nation, said, 
[Trump is] essentially throwing his Ameri-
can citizens or residents of Chinese and Asian 
descent under the bus’ by ignoring the con-
sequences of the language he uses ... He’s 
fueling these anti-Chinese sentiments among 
Americans … not caring that the people who 
will truly suffer the most are Chinese Ameri-
cans and other Asian Americans, his citizens 
whom he’s supposed to protect. (Chiu 2020) 
A China expert at the Center for Strategic 
and International Studies, Scott Kennedy, 
said, 
The use of this term is not only corrosive 
vis-à-vis a global audience, including here at 
home, it is also fueling a narrative in China 
about a broader American hatred and fear 
of not just the Chinese Communist Party 
but of China and Chinese people in general. 
(Rogers et al 2020)
Though Trump and his administration 
ofﬁ cials denied any intention or inclina-
tion of racism, many were apparently 
emboldened by the administration ofﬁ -
cials’ remarks which were manifested in 
several verbal and physical attacks across 
the country (Chiu 2020). On 9 March 
2020, a 26-year-old Chinese woman, 
Yuanyuan Zhu, was shouted at and spat 
on by a middle-aged man because she 
was a Chinese American or because of 
being from the Mongoloid racial group. 
Other Asian Americans from Korea, 
Vietnam, the Philippines, Myanmar and 
other countries also came under threat 
either because they were thought to be 
Chinese Americans or because they could 
not be differentiated from the Chinese. 
During the third week alone in March 
2020, nearly two dozen Asian Americans 
who were interviewed, said that they 
were afraid of going out for grocery 
shopping or travelling alone in subways 
or buses (Tavernise and Oppel Jr 2020). 
Jeni Erbes-Chan, an architect in New 
York, was shouted at on the subway on 10 
March by a man saying: “You people 
brought the virus. Go back to China” 
(Loffman 2020). In one incident in the 
state of Texas, racial discrimination 
against the Chinese and other Asian 
Americans turned into hate crime and 
violence when a man on 14 March 
stabbed and attempted to murder an 
Asian American family including a two-
year-old girl and a six-year-old because 
the attacker thought that “the family 
was Chinese, and infecting people with 
coronavirus” (Melendez 2020).
Another report by Stop AAPI Hate 
documented that in the third week alone 
in March, there were over 650 cases of 
discrimination against Asian Americans. 
One among them was a Korean American, 
Kari from Seattle, Washington state. 
While she was in the grocery store in 
mid-March, another shopper told her 
child that she could not be in the same 
line because she would get them sick. 
A week later, Kari said a cashier at a 
grocery store refused to check her out. 
Another report released by the Asian 
Paciﬁ c Policy and Planning Council 
(A3PCON) and Chinese for Afﬁ rmative 
Action said that there were several 
instances of Asian Americans being 
coughed at or spat on, and told to leave 
stores. Many were also refused pick-up 
by Uber and Lyft transportation services. 
There were also several instances of on-
line and verbal harassment and physical 
violence or assault against the Asian 
Americans. Earlier data collected by 
Russell Jeung, professor of Asian American 
Studies at San Francisco State Universi-
ty, showed a widespread occurrence of 
anti-Asian incidents. The data, which was 
based on media reports, revealed that 
during 28 January to 24 February when 
the ﬁ rst coronavirus cases were reported 
in the US, there were more than 1,000 
cases of racism and xenophobia against 
Asian Americans. The president and ex-
ecutive director of the civil rights group 
called Asian Americans Advancing Justice 
(AAAJ), John C  Yang, believed that the 
rise in racial discrimination against 
Asian Americans was encouraged and 
incited by Trump’s tweet on 16 March 
calling it a “Chinese virus.” Yang said, 
We have seen people associate the virus with 
Chinese people as they are assaulting them. 
It’s outrageous for any elected ofﬁ cial to 
have been dismissive when the evidence of 
racist attacks continues to climb. Words mat-
ter and they often hold more weight when 
spoken by our politicians. (Kandil 2020)
Racism against People from 
the North East
Racism against people from this part of 
the country is not a new phenomenon, 
but the spread of COVID-19 had once 
again ﬂ ared up racial discrimination 
and stigmatisation of people from the 
region. The discrimination of people 
from the North East is a combination of 
both ignorance and intolerance towards 
people of another racial group (Kipgen 
2020). Duncan McDuie-Ra in his work 
“‘Is India Racist?’ Murder, Migration and 
Mary Kom” writes that
North East communities are frequently cast 
as being outside the boundaries of the In-
dian nation owing to their membership of 
a segment of the population identiﬁ ed by 
a racialised physicality. The appearance of 
someone with so-called “chinky” features 
marks them as peripheral, and external 
to the hierarchies of caste, region and lan-
guage that make up an established order—
far from a just order to be sure—within the 
mainstream population; this is a position 
that some challenge and others embrace. 
Furthermore, there is the connotation of 
a connection to China, a connotation pro-
testors used to punctuate their outrage. 
(McDuie-Ra 2015: 308) 
Some scholars posit that people from 
the North East India are “non-recognized 
and misrecognized, mirrored back by 
the wider Indian society as foreigners, 
hailing from such places as China, Nepal, 
Thailand, or Japan and on a visit to 
India, or as ‘lesser Indians’ rather than 
as equal citizens” (Wouters and Subba 
2013). One scholar from the North East 
in his work “North-east and Chinky: 
Countenances of Racism in India” writes 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
COMMENTARY
JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
24
that “There is a propensity amongst 
many fellow Indians outside the regions 
to perceive the regions to be dominated 
by people with Mongoloid features. 
Many Indians from outside the regions 
deridingly associate Mongoloid Indians 
with Chinese” (Samson 2017: 24). Another 
writer from the region says that racism 
faced by people from North East in 
mainland India is “much more in-your-
face, because of observed ethnic/racial 
appearance in the form of different skin 
colour and looks, language, cultural 
barriers and alien-sounding, difﬁ cult-
to-pronounce names” (Ngaihte 2014: 15). 
While recognising the existence of several 
instances and/or forms of racial discrimi-
nation and attacks on people of the 
North East India, this article discusses 
the spike of racism in the context of the 
coronavirus outbreak.
Coronavirus and Racism
There were several instances of racial 
attacks on people from the North East 
in different parts of India following 
the outbreak of the coronavirus. On 
22 March 2020, while a 25-year-old 
woman, Rameshwori, from Manipur went 
out for grocery shopping in Delhi, she 
was racially abused. Describing the inci-
dent, the woman said, 
It was quite a deliberate attack. He slowed 
down near me, spat at my face, called me 
corona and left. I was too shocked to react 
… he didn’t just spit on me because I’m a 
woman. I was attacked because I’m a 
north-eastern woman from Manipur with 
Mongoloid features.
Two days earlier on 20 March, another 
woman from Manipur was called “gandi 
virus” meaning dirty virus by a group of 
men in Delhi. The victim’s sister said 
they were often asked by the autorick-
shaw drivers whether they were from 
China and were infected with the virus, 
and they had to convince the drivers ﬁ rst 
that they are also Indians before they 
were being allowed the ride (Bose 2020). 
A report titled “Coronavirus Pandemic: 
India’s Mongoloid Looking People Face 
Upsurge of Racism” by Rights and Risk 
Analysis Group (RRAG), a non-governmen-
tal organisation, that was released on 26 
March 2020 documented that racial dis-
crimination took place in some popular 
restaurants and reputed educational in-
stitutions, including the Kirori Mal Col-
lege of University of Delhi, the Tata 
Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, 
and the National Council of Educational 
Research and Training (NCERT), an insti-
tution which is responsible for preparing 
syllabus for students up to Grade XII 
under the Central Board of Secondary 
Education. The report also stated that 
racial discrimination was observed across 
the country, including places like Gujarat, 
Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, West Bengal, 
and Maharashtra. Suhas Chakma of 
RRAG said, 
Apart from being called “Corona”, “Chinese”, 
“Chinki”, India’s Mongoloid looking peo-
ple were spat on and called “coronavirus”, 
forcibly quarantined despite showing no 
COVID-19 symptoms because of their looks, 
denied entry into the apartment complex, 
forced to leave the apartment, threatened 
with eviction from their apartment, forced 
to leave a restaurant to make others com-
fortable, none wanting to share transport 
with them. (Karmakar 2020)
In another incident, two shopkeepers 
in Hyderabad were denied entry at a 
supermarket because they looked like 
foreigners. The two were denied entry 
even after showing a government-issued 
identity cards proving that they were 
Indians (Pandey 2020). A 24-year-old 
woman in Kolkata was reportedly refused 
treatment for a urinary tract infection 
(UTI) because workers at two hospitals 
insisted that she had to undergo COVID-19 
treatment ﬁ rst before getting treatment 
for the UTI. She was ﬁ nally treated at the 
third hospital but ended up at an isola-
tion ward in the second hospital after a 
ﬁ rst information report was ﬁ led against 
her to the police allegedly for running 
away from COVID-19 screening. The 
woman, who was from Sikkim from the 
North East, said, “I tried to explain to 
them that I had no symptoms … I felt 
like I was being treated like a dog. I was 
hungry and in pain so I asked the nurse 
for medicine, but she just ignored me.” 
The doctor who came to check on her 
asked if she was from China. And on 
28 March, a 20-year-old student from 
Nagaland and some of his friends were 
denied entry in a grocery shop because 
the staff thought they were foreigners 
because of their “Mongoloid” features 
(Colney 2020). A group of students 
from the North East—Manipur and 
Nagaland—were also allegedly attacked 
and beaten in Kolkata on 22 March by 
their neighbours demanding that they 
leave their rented house. As they left 
their house, the attackers shouted “Go 
corona go” (Sirur 2020).
Response from the Leaders
Some may argue that the spike of racism 
against the Chinese and other Asian 
Americans in the US was largely due to 
the use of racially charged language by 
Trump and some of his administration 
ofﬁ cials and supporters. While there 
was some truth behind this argument, 
the President himself clariﬁ ed that his 
use of the term “Chinese virus” did not 
have any racist intent or inclination. In 
fact, following the spike of racial attacks 
across the country, Trump on 23 March 
2020 tweeted that the spread of corona-
virus in the US was not the fault of Asian 
Americans. Trump’s tweet said, 
It is very important that we totally protect 
our Asian American community in the United 
States, and all around the world … They are 
amazing people, and the spreading of the 
Virus (...) is NOT their fault in any way, 
shape, or form. They are working closely 
with us to get rid of it. WE WILL PREVAIL 
TOGETHER! (Vazquez 2020) 
Nevertheless, there was sufﬁ cient em-
pirical evidence that Trump’s use of 
language had contributed to and/or 
incited racial discrimination against the 
Chinese and other Asian Americans of 
the Mongoloid features.
Empirical evidence had also suggested 
that while there were people who held 
prejudice against people from the north-
eastern states, the Government of India 
did not endorse or support such a view. 
In fact, following several instances of 
racial remarks against the people of 
North East, Kiren Rijiju, Minister of State 
available at
Ideal Books
26/2082, Tutors Lane
Secretariat Statue
Thiruvananthapuram 695001, Kerala
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
COMMENTARY
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
25
of the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports 
and Minister of State in the Ministry of 
Minority Affairs, on 18 March 2020 
raised the issue with the concerned 
people in the Ministry of Home Affairs 
(MHA). The complaint of Rijiju, who 
himself belongs to Arunachal Pradesh 
from the North East, had led to the gov-
ernment issuing advisory on 23 March 
to all states and union territories to take 
action on individuals or groups who en-
gage in discriminatory activities, includ-
ing racial harassment with regard to 
COVID-19. The MHA advisory said, “It has 
come to the notice of the Ministry that 
people from the North East have been 
facing harassment after the occurrence 
of COVID-19 in the country. There have 
been cases where people from the North 
east, including athletes and sportsper-
sons, have been harassed by linking 
them to COVID-19. This is racially dis-
criminatory, inconvenient and painful 
to them” (Hindu 2020).
Conclusions
While there have been cases of racism in 
both the US and India for quite a long 
time, the outbreak of coronavirus has 
rekindled it. The spread of the virus led to 
the stigmatisation of a certain minority 
group of people because of the origin of 
the virus. However, there was no sufﬁ -
cient or strong evidence to suggest that 
the kinds of racism in both countries 
were of institutionalised discrimination. 
They ﬁ tted more into personally mediat-
ed racism as put forward by Jones, or 
“aversive racism” theorised by Dovidio 
and Gaertner. There were individuals, 
groups of people, or many people across 
the society who held a xenophobic view 
towards people with Mongoloid features 
just because the novel coronavirus was 
known to have originated in Wuhan, 
China. But, not all forms of racism were 
explicit and straightforward. Sometimes, 
people engaged or expressed racism in 
more subtle ways, such as posting mes-
sages on social networking sites without 
involving directly in verbal or physical 
attacks (Mani 2020). However, racism in 
both countries were neither endorsed 
nor supported formally or ofﬁ cially by 
Washington and Delhi. But undoubtedly, 
the stigmatisation of one particular group 
of people had caused a huge psychological 
impact and deep racial division within 
the society. 
The authorities, including the law 
enforcements of both countries had taken 
certain measures to deal with the surge 
of racism, such as accepting a complaint 
or making an arrest (Scroll 2020). But, 
the continued incidents were the proof 
that such steps were not enough to deter 
or stop racial attacks (Campbell and 
Ellerbeck 2020). It was evident that more 
robust and comprehensive steps were 
necessary to address the larger issue of 
racism, including but not limited to more 
awareness campaign and sensitisation of 
the virus and the importance of unity in 
racial diversity, implementation of zero 
tolerance policy against racism, and 
stricter actions against the perpetrators, 
including heavy monetary ﬁ ne and jail 
terms or both. 
If strong measures are not imple-
mented, the virus of racism will inher-
ently remain in the mindsets of people, 
which can be a threat to peace, stability 
and solidarity of the society and the 
larger humanity. 
Leaders should be more sensitive with 
the kinds of language they use when it 
comes to matters that can hurt the senti-
ments of people, especially in diverse and 
democratic societies like the US and 
India. Leaders and the general public who 
stigmatise people of a certain race should 
realise that viruses such as COVID-19 do 
not have race, nationality, or boundary. 
The stigmatisation of a certain race 
triggers racial division and hinders the 
collective ﬁ ght against the pandemic. 
Racism and racial attacks can be equally 
deadly and dangerous to humanity as 
much as the virus itself. In a globalised 
world, it needs the cooperation and col-
lective efforts of individuals, civil society 
groups, governments and international 
institutions to ﬁ ght against the invisible 
deadly viruses, including the coronavirus. 
It is unlikely that coronavirus or COVID-19 
will be the last pandemic that humanity 
will have to face.
References
Bose, Rakhi (2020): “‘He Spat and Called Me Corona’: 
Racism Against North East Indians Feeds Off 
Coronavirus Panic,” News18, 25 March, viewed 
on 15 April 2020, https://www.news18.com/
news/india/he-spat-and-called-me-corona-rac-
ism-against-north-east-indians-feeds-off-coro-
navirus-panic-2549223.html. 
Campbell, Alexia Fernández and Alex Ellerbeck 
(2020): “Federal Agencies Are Doing Little 
About the Rise in Anti-Asian Hate,” NBC News, 
16 April, viewed on 17 April 2020, https://www.
nbcnews.com/news/asian-america/federal-
agencies-are-doing-little-about-rise-anti-asian-
hate-n1184766. 
Chiu, Allyson (2020): “Trump Has No Qualms 
about Calling Coronavirus the ‘Chinese Virus’: 
That’s a Dangerous Attitude, Experts Say,” 
Washington Post, 20 March, viewed on 13 April 
2020, https://www.washingtonpost.com/na-
tion/2020/03/20/coronavirus-trump-chinese-
virus/. 
CNN Editorial Research (2020): “Coronavirus 
Outbreak Timeline Fast Facts,” Cable News 
Network/CNN, 7 April, viewed on 11 April 2020, 
https://edition.cnn.com/2020/02/06/health/
wuhan-coronavirus-timeline-fast-facts/index.
html.
Colney, Kimi (2020): “Indians from the Northeast 
Face Intensiﬁ ed Racism as Coronavirus Fears 
Grow,” Caravan, 13 April, viewed on 16 April 
2020, https://caravanmagazine.in/communi-
ties/coronavirus-increases-racism-against-in-
dians-from-northeast. 
Dijk, Teun A van (1992): “Discourse and the Denial 
of Racism,” Discourse & Society, Vol 3, No 1, 
pp 87–118.
Dovidio, John F and Samuel L Gaertner (2000): 
“Aversive Racism and Selection Decisions: 
1989 and 1999,” Psychological Science, Vol 11, 
No 4, pp 315–19.
 — (2004): “Aversive Racism,” Advances in Experi-
mental Social Psychology, Mark P Zanna (ed), 
Vol 36, pp 1–52, Elsevier Academic Press.
Dutta, Anisha (2020): “Coronavirus Update: Govt 
Bans Domestic Flights from Tuesday Midnight,” 
Hindustan Times, 23 March, https://www.hin-
dustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-up-
date-govt-bans-domestic-ﬂ ights-from-wednes-
day/story-kVgzJUg0gqCH5co5wV1ffJ.html. 
Gettleman, Jeffrey, Kai Schultz and Suhasini Raj 
(2020): “In India, Coronavirus Fans Religious 
Hatred: NYT,” Times of India, 13 April, viewed 
on 17 April 2020, https://timesoﬁ ndia.india-
times.com/india/in-india-coronavirus-fans-
religious-hatred-nyt/articleshow/75119421.cms. 
Hindu (2020): “Coronavirus Outbreak: MHA Advises 
against Discrimination of Northeast People,” 
23 March, viewed on 16 April 2020, https://
www.thehindu.com/news/national/coronavi-
rus-outbreak-mha-advises-against-discrimina-
tion-of-northeast-people/article31145387.ece. 
Jones, Camara Phyllis (2000): “Levels of Racism: A 
Theoretic Framework and a Gardener’s Tale,” 
American Journal of Public Health, Vol 90, 
No 8, pp 1212–15.
Kandil, Caitlin Yoshiko (2020): “Asian Americans 
Report over 650 Racist Acts over Last Week, 
New Data Says,” NBC News, 27 March, viewed 
on 13 April 2020, https://www.nbcnews.com/
news/asian-america/asian-americans-report-
nearly-500-racist-acts-over-last-week-n1169821. 
Karmakar, Sumir (2020): “Coronavirus Outbreak 
Has Increased Racial Attacks on People from 
the Northeast: NGO Report,” Deccan Herald, 
26 March, viewed on 16 April 2020, https://
www.deccanherald.com/national/east-and-
northeast/will-provide-ﬁ nancial-aid-to-strand-
ed-migrant-workers-and-families-from-wb-
mamata-banerjee-825847.html. 
Kipgen, Nehginpao (2020): “Stop Discrimination 
and Fight the Virus,” Statesman, 28 March, 
viewed on 16 April 2020, https://www.thestates-
man.com/opinion/stop-discrimination-ﬁ ght-
virus-1502871009.html. 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
COMMENTARY
JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
26
Loffman, Matt (2020): “Asian Americans Describe 
‘Gut Punch’ of Racist Attacks during Coronavirus 
Pandemic,” PBS NewsHour, 7 April, viewed on 
14 April 2020, https://www.pbs.org/newshour/
nation/asian-americans-describe-gut-punch-
of-racist-attacks-during-coronavirus-pandemic. 
Mani, Gayathri (2020): “Asked to Vacate Hostels, 
Racial Slurs: Northeast Indians in Delhi Deal 
with Daily COVID-19 ‘Hatred’,” New Indian 
Express, 30 March, viewed on 17 April 2020, 
https://www.newindianexpress.com/cities/del-
hi/2020/mar/30/asked-to-vacate-hostels-racial-
slurs-northeast-indians-in-delhi-deal-with-daily-
covid-19-hatred-2123304.html. 
Mangan, Dan (2020): “Trump Defends Calling Cor-
onavirus ‘Chinese Virus’–‘It’s Not Racist at All’,” 
CNBC, 18 March, viewed on 11 April 2020, https://
www.cnbc.com/2020/03/18/coronavirus-criti-
cism-trump-defends-saying-chinese-virus.html. 
McDuie-Ra, Duncan (2015): “‘Is India Racist?’ 
Murder, Migration and Mary Kom,” South Asia: 
Journal of South Asian Studies, Vol 38, No 2, 
pp 304–19.
Melendez, Pilar (2020): “Stabbing of Asian-Ameri-
can 2-Year-Old and Her Family Was a Virus-
Fueled Hate Crime: Feds,” Daily Beast, 1 March, 
viewed on 14 April 2020, https://www.thedaily-
beast.com/stabbing-of-asian-american-2-year-
old-and-her-family-was-a-coronavirus-fueled-
hate-crime-feds-say. 
Ngaihte, Thangkhanlal (2014): “Nido Taniam and 
the Fraught Question of Racism in India,” 
Economic & Political Weekly, Vol 49, No 11, 
pp 15–17.
Page, Jeremy, Wenxin Fan and Natasha Khan 
(2020): “How It All Started: China’s Early Coro-
navirus Missteps,” Wall Street Journal, 6 March, 
viewed on 4 April 2020, https://www.wsj.com/
articles/how-it-all-started-chinas-early-coro-
navirus-missteps-11583508932. 
Pandey, Ashish (2020): “2 From Manipur Denied 
Entry at Hyderabad Supermarket, Cops Probe 
Racism Claim,” India Today, 9 April, viewed on 
16 April 2020, https://www.indiatoday.in/india/
story/coronavirus-hyderad-supermarket-denies-
entry-to-2-from-northeast-1665051-2020-04-09. 
Readfearn, Graham (2020): “How Did Coronavirus 
Start and Where Did It Come From? Was It 
 Really Wuhan’s Animal Market?” Guardian, 
9 April, viewed on 11 April 2020, https://www.
theguardian.com/world/2020/apr/09/how-
did-the-coronavirus-start-where-did-it-come-
from-how-did-it-spread-humans-was-it-really-
bats-pangolins-wuhan-animal-market.
Reid, David (2020): “India Conﬁ rms Its First 
Coronavirus Case,” CNBC, 30 January, viewed on 
14 April 2020, https://www.cnbc.com/2020/
01/30/india-conﬁ rms-ﬁ rst-case-of-the-corona-
virus.html. 
Rogers, Katie, Lara Jakes and Ana Swanson (2020): 
“Trump Defends Using ‘Chinese Virus’ Label, 
Ignoring Growing Criticism,” New York Times, 
18 March, viewed on 13 April 2020, https://
www.nytimes.com/2020/03/18/us/politics/
china-virus.html. 
Samson, Kamei (2017): “North-east and Chinky: 
Countenances of Racism in India,” Journal of 
Development Practice, Vol 3, pp 20–28.
Schumaker, Erin (2020): “Timeline: How Corona-
virus Got Started,” ABC News, 9 April viewed on 
11 April 2020, https://abcnews.go.com/Health/
timeline-coronavirus-started/story?id=69435165.
Scroll (2020): “Delhi: Man Arrested for Allegedly 
Spitting at Woman from Manipur, Calling Her 
‘Corona’,” 25 March, viewed on 17 April 2020, 
https://scroll.in/latest/957257/delhi-man-arrest-
ed-for-allegedly-spitting-at-woman-from-ma-
nipur-calling-her-corona. 
Sinha, Saurabh (2020): “Domestic, International 
Flight Ban Extended: To Restart From April 14-15 
Midnight: DGCA,” Times of India, 27 March, 
viewed on 15 April 2020, https://timesoﬁ ndia.
indiatimes.com/business/india-business/do-
mestic-international-ﬂ ight-ban-extended-to-
restart-from-april-14-15-midnight-dgca/arti-
cleshow/74847420.cms. 
Sirur, Simrin (2020): “‘Beaten, Abused, Spat On’: 
People from Northeast Endure Racist Slurs Amid 
Coronavirus Panic,” Print, 25 March, viewed on 
16 April 2020, https://theprint.in/india/beaten-
abused-spat-on-people-from-northeast-endure-
racist-slurs-amid-coronavirus-panic/387716/.
Tavernise, Sabrina and Richard A Oppel Jr (2020): 
“Spit On, Yelled At, Attacked: Chinese-Ameri-
cans Fear for Their Safety,” New York Times, 
23 March, viewed on 13 April 2020, https://
www.nytimes.com/2020/03/23/us/chinese-
coronavirus-racist-attacks.html. 
Tucker, Emma (2020): “CDC Director Condemns 
Trump’s ‘China Virus’ Tweet,” Daily Beast, 10 
March, viewed on 13 April 2020, https://www.
thedailybeast.com/cdc-director-robert-red-
ﬁ eld-condemns-trumps-china-virus-tweet. 
Vazquez, Maegan (2020): “Trump Says Spread of 
Coronavirus Not the Fault of the Asian Ameri-
can Community,” Cable News Network/CNN, 
24 March, viewed on 16 April 2020, https://edi-
tion.cnn.com/2020/03/23/politics/donald-
trump-coronavirus-asian-american-communi-
ty/index.html.
WHO (2020): “Rolling Updates on Coronavirus 
Disease (COVID-19),” World Health Organiza-
tion, 9 April, viewed on 11 April 2020, https://
www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-
coronavirus-2019/events-as-they-happen.
Wouters, Jelle J P and Tanka B Subba (2013): “The 
‘Indian Face,’ India’s Northeast, and ‘The Idea 
of India’,” Asian Anthropology, Vol 12, No 2, 
pp 126–40.
ISID
Institute for Studies in Industrial Development
(A sponsored institution of Indian Council of Social Science Research)
Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India
P.B. No. 7513, 4, Institutional Area Phase II, Vasant Kunj, New Delhi-110070
E-mail: ssc@isid.edu.in; Website: http://isid.org.in/
Invites Applications/Nominations for the post of DIRECTOR
The Institute for Studies in Industrial Development (ISID) was established in October 1986 as autonomous policy research institution 
with the objectives of undertaking research, promotion of debates on issues relating to industrial development, building up of databases 
and promotion social science research. The Institute was brought under grant-in-aid scheme of the Indian Council of Social Science 
Research (ICSSR) in 1988. Over the three decades of its existence, the Institute has developed into a multifaceted national level policy 
research institution by focusing on different aspects of India’s industrial development such as trade, investment, technology, corporate 
sector, labour and employment, public health and media studies and creation of research infrastructure including databases.
ISID invites Applications/Nominations for the Position of a Director, who should be an eminent social scientist with outstanding academic 
record and a doctorate degree from a recognized University in India or abroad; a minimum of 10 years teaching or research experience 
as Professor in a University or Research Institution with considerable research and administrative experience and capable of providing 
academic leadership, team work, and collaboration. 
The Director is the academic and administrative head of the Institute and will function under the guidance of the Board of Governors 
of ISID.
Desirable: Research or teaching experience in economics, specialization in issues in industrial development, corporate sector, ﬁ nance, 
macroeconomics, public policy and research themes of the Institute with a proven record of publication in peer-reviewed journals 
and books.
Age limit: The person should ideally complete one term of three years before attaining the age of 65 years. A younger person who can 
provide leadership to the Institute for 5–6 years may be preferred. The scale of pay is governed by the ISID/ICSSR rules and regulation 
and at present it is equivalent to that of Vice-Chancellor of a Central University. 
Applications/nominations, with complete bio-data along with names of three referees, should be addressed to the Chairman/Convener, 
Search-cum-Selection Committee reach within one month from the date of publication of this advertisement at the Institute’s address 
mentioned above. 
The qualiﬁ cations proposed are subject to adjustment by the Search-cum-Selection Committee, if considered necessary. The committee 
will have the freedom to consider names of scholars who may not have applied or been nominated. 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
27
book reviewS
Insights into the Condition of 
Elderly in India
Tulika Tripathi
W
e no longer have what our 
previous generation had, which 
was an intergenerational living 
arrangement with many children in the 
same vicinity, if not house, to care for/
share the care of the elderly. Yet, the 
 Indian policy for the aged remains opti-
mistic about the role of the family in pro-
viding necessary support to elders. Till 
quite recently, the research on ageing was 
centred around demographic changes, 
and the dependency ratio and activity 
status of elders. India’s Aged: Needs and 
Vulnerabilities breaks this conventional 
straitjacketed analysis of elders and is a 
signiﬁ cant contribution on the needs 
and vulnerabilities of the aged in India. 
As the title of the book suggests, the 
needs and vulnerabilities of the aged are 
ﬁ ttingly addressed in various chapters 
on economic dependence, health and 
disability, healthcare cost, role of family 
in utilisation of healthcare and satisfac-
tion of the elderly. The book is a collect-
ed volume of 10 research papers by aca-
demics working on various aspects of 
ageing and the aged in India. 
Though the book is not divided into 
sections, for the ease of understanding, 
it can be broadly classiﬁ ed as addressing 
two sub-themes. The ﬁ rst part consists 
of ﬁ ve papers dealing with economic 
activity, dependency and household 
health spending. The second part deals 
with the role of family, living arrange-
ments, well-being and satisfaction of the 
elderly. While setting the tone of the book 
in the introduction, Udaya S Mishra and 
S Irudaya Rajan  have aptly identiﬁ ed 
two factors—individual identities and 
social and family factors—as critical in 
shaping the needs and vulnerabilities of 
the aged. These two factors remain the 
central point of inspection to under-
stand the needs and vulnerabilities of 
the aged in subsequent chapters.
Declining fertility and longer life ex-
pectancy mean the number of older adults 
is growing faster than the number of chil-
dren and there is a rapid increase in old-
age  dependency ratio. Generally, popula-
tion ageing is associated with physical 
and economic dependency, and falling la-
bour force participation and income. 
However, the paper by T R Dilip suggests 
that during 1983–2010 the work participa-
tion rate (WPR) of the elderly has substan-
tially increased, leading to the decline in 
the old and inactive group to 9.3%. As a 
result, the contribution of  the elderly to the 
household has also incre ased manifold 
since 1983. While economic contribution 
by males has incre ased, females are pro-
viding domestic support to the household. 
The paper further argues that the 
presence of an older person in the house-
hold will put extra stress on existing re-
sources, which will lead to a reduction in 
overall household and individual welfare. 
Further increase in the WPR of the elderly 
is also seen as a lack of social security and 
economic support to the elderly (Alam 
2006: 140). Therefore, the study on eco-
nomic contribution of the elderly should 
also look at health status and working 
conditions of the working elderly. It will 
give us a  better interpretation of their WPR 
and well-being. Further, the dependency-
led argument of ageing should be studied 
by rebalancing their economic and do-
mestic contribution to the household. 
Economic Dependency
Ageing comes with higher incidence of 
activities of daily living (ADL) and instru-
mental activities of daily living (IADL), 
leading to the speciﬁ c requirement of 
long-term care. According to Building a 
Knowledge Base on Population Ageing in 
India (BKPAI) data for seven states of 
India around 3.7% of the elderly suffer 
from any ADL limitations, 34.7% from 
any chronic morbidity, 34.7% from any 
locomotor disability and 49.6% from 
any IADL limitations, which requires 
long-term care. In this context, the major 
problems of disability are vision, hearing, 
and mobility impairment (UNFPA 2013). 
Rajan and Anjana A, based on an inter-
esting longitudinal study (Kerala Ageing 
Survey) of four rounds, show that disabi-
lity rises with age. They argue that an 
older person was expected to live 15 years 
with disability in 2004, which rose to 17 
years in 2010. The conditions are much 
worse for female elderly; their chances 
of life expectancy with disabilities are 
higher than their male counterparts. 
Syam Prasad has done a detailed 
study of dependent elders among vari-
ous subgroups to identify the most vul-
nerable group. This study shows that the 
most vulnerable are the urban elderly 
women, who are dependent on others 
for their basic needs. To further under-
stand dependency, individual relative 
deprivation and group relative depriva-
tion are analysed. The elderly from the 
households that are deprived within their 
social groups have a higher probability 
for being economically disadvantaged and 
dependent; however this varies among 
various socio-economic status (SES) cat-
egories. Individually deprived elderly 
persons are more likely to be weak and 
dependent across any SES identity. 
Health Expenditure
By 2030, the elderly will bear nearly half 
of the total disease burden in India. The 
elderly are more exposed to non-com-
municable diseases and chronic diseases, 
especially to cardiovascular disease and 
chronic pulmonary disease, diabetes, 
and cancer, requiring multiple health 
visits to outpatient departments and for 
hospitalisation. In this context, the paper 
by Sanjay K Mohanty and Akanksha 
Srivastava provides estimates and pro-
jected cost of healthcare for 2026. They 
India’s Aged: Needs and Vulnerabilities edited 
by Udaya S Mishra and S Irudaya Rajan, Orient Blackswan, 
2017; pp xiii + 254, `895 (hardcover).
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
BOOK REVIEW
JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
28
estimated an increase in inpatient cost 
by 148% and in outpatient cost by 67% 
over 10 years. This will have severe impli-
cations for older persons and households 
in the  absence of weak pension and 
health  insurance coverage along with 
already weak health centres in India, on 
meeting existing goals. Applying “need 
standardised distribution” of healthcare 
utilisation, William Joe points out the 
pro-rich bias in healthcare utilisation. 
Poor elderly with gre ater needs are not 
utilising healthcare services.
From the existing debates, it needs to 
be noted that the health and well-being 
of the elderly can be achieved with the 
full coordination of family, society, and 
health institutions. However,  increasing 
nuclear family living arrangements and 
female employment outside the home 
and high youth outmigration have cre-
ated a severe challenge for the elderly, 
particularly in situations requiring long-
term physical support (Carmichael and 
Charles 2003: 782; Viitanen 2005: 12; He 
Daifeng and McHenry 2013: 19–20, 24).
Living Arrangements and Family
In the case of India, it is mostly family 
members who are the primary ﬁ nancial 
and physical carers; approximately 90% 
of the elderly are receiving help from 
their family. Most of them live in inter-
generational settings. Of the family mem-
bers, mostly daughters-in-law provide 
care  followed by spouse and son. Besides, 
we should not overlook the 5% elderly 
living alone and 12% living with their 
spouses. This group must be in desperate 
need of physical and ﬁ nancial support. It 
would have been interesting to have 
some papers on this group in this book. 
Two very interesting papers by Joe 
and Shalini Rudra argue for a revitalisa-
tion of the role of the family in elderly 
caregiving and well-being. These studies 
have shown that good health status and 
utilisation of healthcare services are better 
for elderly living with family members, 
and more precisely with their spouse. 
Despite the limitations of self-rated health 
data, with careful analysis and examina-
tion of results (self-rated health given 
in the National Sample Survey Ofﬁ ce 
rounds on morbidity and healthcare 
 utilisation), Rudra argues that family is 
the most critical determinant of  better 
self-rated health of the elderly. The elderly 
living with their children and spouse 
rated their health better than those 
living alone or with extended relatives 
across any SES group. These two papers 
present a strong case for various incen-
tives to the families taking care of the 
elderly. It also establishes the role of 
health systems whereby the elderly from 
the eastern region are more likely to 
report poor health than the western 
region of India. Across regions, the 
elderly living with their family members 
are better off than those living alone.
However, there are other papers in the 
book that look critically at multigenera-
tional living arrangements of elderly. 
There is no data on the experiences of 
elderly living in a multigenerational 
family, although, with the help of a hier-
archal linear regression model the link 
between living arrangements and health 
was expl ained by the contextual factors 
in the paper by Tannistha Samanta. The 
paper explains that the level of urban-
isation and proportion of elderly in a dis-
trict leads to better health outcomes of 
the elderly, which means access to better 
household sanitation and healthcare ser-
vices are effective  factors in reducing 
disease burdens of elderly, irrespective 
of their living arran gement. Thus this 
paper establishes the crucial role of 
household wealth in  explaining the link 
between living with family and the 
health of the elderly. In a nutshell, all 
these studies look to the critical role of 
the family, for the care and well-being of 
the elderly. A few of the contributions also 
shed doubts on the role of family, and con-
sider other essential factors like wealth 
possession and employment. However, 
in the absence of data on these issues, 
they conclude with a strong case for social 
and economic support to the elderly and 
the families taking care of them.
The last chapter by Anil Kumar looks 
at a totally neglected theme in elderly 
research, that is, role and requirement 
of nutrition for elderly health. When we 
have child undernutrition at roughly 
around 40% (IIPS and ICF 2017: in ref. 7), 
then the  elderly might very well be suf-
fering from lifelong undernutrition; the 
consequences of which start to roll out 
in old age. In countries like India, where 
people grow old with lots of dietary re-
strictions, it becomes challenging to 
make them follow the required diet. It 
gets further complicated for the poor el-
derly, where the household relies on 
them for economic support.
In Conclusion 
The best part of the book is that it addres-
ses quite a large audience. Resear chers 
need to note the innovative methods of 
EPWRF India Time Series
(www.epwrﬁ ts.in)
 Banking Indicators for 702 Districts 
District-wise data has been added to the Banking Statistics module of the EPWRF India 
Time Series (ITS) database. 
This sub-module provides data for 702 districts for the following variables:
● Deposit–No. of Accounts and Amount, by Population Group (rural, semi-urban, 
urban and metropolitan)
● Credit (as per Sanction)–Amount Outstanding, by Population Group
● Credit (as per Utilisation)–No. of Accounts and Amount Outstanding, by sectors 
● Credit-Deposit (CD) Ratio 
● Number of Bank Ofﬁ ces–By Population Group
The data series are available from December 1972; on a half-yearly basis till June 1989 
and on an annual basis thereafter. These data have been sourced from Reserve Bank 
of India’s publication, Basic Statistical Returns (BSR) of Scheduled Commercial Banks 
in India.
The EPWRF ITS has 20 modules covering a range of macro-economic, ﬁ nancial and 
social sector indicators on the Indian economy.
For more details, visit www.epwrﬁ ts.in or e-mail to: its@epwrf.in
EXPANSION 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
BOOK REVIEW
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
29
data use despite limited data available on 
the subject in India. Since ageing was 
always taken as a problem of the global 
North and it was never assumed that  India 
would face this problem, we do not have 
data on this issue. The available data are 
a by-product of household and health 
surveys with different motivations, such 
as consumption pattern,  living stand-
ard, reproductive health or health ex-
penditure, and provide limited informa-
tion about the needs of the elderly. To 
ﬁ ll this gap,  elderly-focused studies 
should be funded and supported more. 
Further, the authors of the papers 
in the book have also used innovative an-
alytical tools to ﬁ gure out individual- and 
 social-level effects, forecasting of health 
expenses, etc, which can be a great learn-
ing tool for students of health economics. 
It is also relevant for policymakers as it 
informs the “vulnerabilities” and needs 
of the elderly for policy purposes. It is 
essential for non-academic readers in 
their 30s and 40s to understand the eco-
nomic, physical, and personal support 
their elderly need from them, and the 
preparation of the same for themselves.
Tulika Tripathi (hello.tulika@gmail.com) teaches 
at the Centre for Studies in Economics and 
Planning, School of Social Sciences, Central 
University of Gujarat, Gandhinagar, Gujarat.
References
Alam, M (2006): Ageing in India: Socio-Economic 
and Health Dimensions, New Delhi: Academic 
Foundation Press.
Bravo, David and Esteban Puentes (2012): “Female 
Labour Force Participation and Informal Care of 
Adults: Evidence for a Middle-income Country,” 
www.econ.uchile.cl/SDT. 
Carmichael, Fiona and Susan Charles (2003): “The 
Opportunity Costs of Informal Care: Does 
Gender Matter?” Journal of Health Economics, 
Vol 22, No 5, pp 781–803. 
He, Daifeng and Peter McHenry (2013): “Does 
Labour Force Participation Reduce Informal 
Caregiving?” 
https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/
papers.cfm?abstract_id=2292700.
IIPS and ICF (2017): National Family Health Survey 
(NFHS-4), 2015–16: India, Mumbai: Interna-
tional Institute for Population Sciences.
UNFPA (2013): “Knowledge Base on Population 
Ageing in India: Report on the Status of Elderly 
in  Selected States of India, 2011,” United Nations 
Population Fund, UN.
Viitanen, K Tarja (2005): “Informal Elderly Care 
and Female Labour Force Participation 
across Europe,” European Network of Eco-
nomic Policy Research Institute, http://www.
enepri.org. 
Women in the Puranas
Arshia Sattar
I
n this volume, Monika Saxena takes 
us by the hand and valiantly leads us 
on a guided path through the mas-
sive compendia of Hindu stories and 
practices that coalesced in the classical 
period (300 CE to 1100 CE). She does this 
via the Vishnu, Markandeya, Matsya, Agni 
and Bhagavata Puranas. Choosing ﬁ ve 
early and late Puranas from among the 
18 texts designated as Maha Puranas, 
Saxena uses them to explore and track 
the  developments in Hindu orthopraxy 
and  orthodoxy in places and times shad-
owed by the spread of Buddhism. In this 
rigorously annotated volume, Saxena does 
well to remind us that the Puranas are 
far more than naïve collections of sec-
tarian myths. 
Myth and History
The Puranas proffer an eccentric and 
 idiosyncratic mix of myth and history, a 
fact that leads to some rather specious 
arguments about the status of myth as 
chronicles of real events and even as 
“truth.” Saxena avoids these troubled 
waters as she unpacks the contents of 
the Puranas, focusing on how women 
are depicted as goddesses in stories and 
how they become increasingly constrained 
by codes of idealised behaviour as wives 
and as members of upper-caste society. 
As Hinduism was asserting itself through 
a new theology and through  increasingly 
stratiﬁ ed, systematised social catego-
ries, Saxena suggests that the Puranas 
were directed at women, giving them a 
new role alongside (but never equal to) 
men in both religious and secular spaces, 
inside the home and outside as well. 
This was enabled through new versions 
of older myths, which introduced a set of 
radically individualised ritual practices: 
vrata (vow), tirtha (pilgrimage) and, of 
course, bhakti (devotion to a chosen 
god), itself. She makes the point that 
however inclusive these new practices 
appear to be, the resurgence of (what we 
now call) Hinduism was led by Brah-
mins, and so the mores and the  social 
arena they delineate remain, essentially, 
conservative. The early Puranas were 
being compiled around the same time as 
the Dharma Shastras, texts that are 
dominated by concerns about purity and 
pollution. It should come as no surprise 
to us, then, that the Puranas hover 
 anxiously around the behaviour of 
 women and around the dangers of 
 varna samkara, the mixing of castes, that 
is, miscegenation. 
Female Divinities
In attempting to understand their hybrid 
nature and identify sources for the 
 diverse materials that the Puranas gath-
er into themselves, Saxena points to how 
much (stories and characters most obvi-
ously so) was absorbed from local cults 
in the different regions of the subconti-
nent where the Puranas were composed 
and redacted. Given her project, Saxena 
points us to local female divinities who 
are mythologised and thereby trans-
formed into pan-Hindu goddesses. How-
ever, the most fundamental questions 
about why the so-called folk narratives 
favour the female energy, divine or 
 otherwise, remain. Is it simply the fact of 
agrarian cultures being profoundly 
aware of the cycles of the fertile and the 
fecund? Were localised religious and 
 social traditions inherently less patriar-
chal, allowing, therefore, the burgeoning 
of independent and powerful female 
 entities?  Although the preferred con-
struct of the female divine in the Pura-
nas is the domesticated wife (Sri/Lakshmi 
and Saraswati, for example), what 
 contrary impulse allows for a ﬁ erce 
 Durga, unattached to any male god? 
Even when the pan-Hindu goddesses are 
Women and the Puranic Tradition in India by 
Monika Saxena, Oxon and New York: Routledge, 2019; 
pp xvii + 288, `1,495. 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
BOOK REVIEW
JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
30
fully articulated as objects of worship 
and even after the appearance of the 
secta rian Puranas, the goddess does not 
get a Purana of her own—the Devi 
 Mahatmya remains steadfastly a part of 
the Markandeya Purana to this day.
Like any other solid doctoral thesis, 
there is much in this volume about who 
said what and when about the Puranas, 
but besides such basic scholarly appa ratus, 
Saxena treats us to an epilogue that she 
sweetly names “Some Parting Thoughts.” 
This is where her analysis lies and—I 
wish that it had been a larger part of the 
book—integrated into the preceding chap-
ters, which are almost entirely descriptive. 
Here is an example of what could have 
been said earlier since it had already been 
suggested, if not ﬁ rmly stated. “One 
would be justiﬁ ed in concluding that the 
Purana composers were aware that they 
were in an  ideological impasse.” 
Accommodating Excluded Groups
Their primary concern was to protect their 
brahmanical (sic) values and heritage, but 
they were only too aware that some com-
promises had to be made in the face of the 
socioreligious churning all around them. If 
they did not accommodate at least some of 
the aspirations of the excluded groups then 
beginning to be articulated, the consequenc-
es would be severe. (p 247)
But, given that this is the thesis that un-
derlies the entire book, Saxena should 
have shared with her readers the “socio-
religious churning” that surrounds the 
composition of the Puranas and told us 
where and how the “aspirations of the 
excluded groups” were being articulat-
ed. In the same section, Saxena men-
tions that the “upper echelons of socie-
ty” realised that the  exclusion of women 
and Shudras from Vedic practice was 
driving them towards Jainism and Bud-
dhism. However, this passing mention is 
not enough. As it is, the book leads us to 
think that the new ideology that the 
Puranas put forth was created in a large-
ly Hindu context rather than in a time 
when heterodox positions both inside 
and outside the Hindu world view were 
hugely popular. 
I would have liked to see Saxena talk 
more about bhakti, which, by the time of 
two of her selected texts, was a full-
blown theology within Hinduism. In the 
ninth century CE, both the Agni and the 
Bhagavata Puranas make mention of 
Vishnu’s avataras; the latter, in fact, is 
dedicated entirely to Krishna’s life on 
earth. How did bhakti (explicitly men-
tioned by Saxena as one of the ways in 
which “others” were now included with-
in a system of orthodoxy) impinge upon 
the social and religious status of women 
—in the south, Andal’s lush poems to 
her beloved Krishna were surely well-
known to the men who composed the 
Bhagavata around the same time and in 
the same region. I am also surprised that 
the Mahatmya gets as little attention as 
it does in a volume that revolves exclu-
sively around women. A discussion about 
the  patriarchy that circumscribes the 
lives of real women, even as it simulta-
neously creates a goddess of remarkable 
power and charisma, would surely not 
have been out of place.
When a doctoral dissertation is pub-
lished as a book, it steps beyond its ini-
tial purpose (securing a degree). As it 
seeks to engage a larger world (which 
includes a wider academic circle), it 
must expand its previous remit and go 
past the constraints under which it was 
written. In this new incarnation, Saxe-
na’s Women and the Puranic Tradition in 
India does not extend itself enough. 
What could have been a series of com-
pelling hypotheses, which could have 
suggested new ways to think about the 
Puranas, remains but a thorough and 
useful guide to some parts of the Puranas. 
Arshia Sattar (arshia.sattar@gmail.com) is an 
independent scholar.
National Family Health Survey-4
February 8, 2020
Twenty-five Years of the NFHS: Lessons for the Future 
—S Irudaya Rajan
Quality of Data in NFHS-4 Compared to Earlier Rounds: An Assessment 
—K Srinivasan, Rakesh Mishra 
Demographic and Health Diversity in the Era of SDGs 
—K S James, S Irudaya Rajan, Srinivas Goli
Trends, Differentials and Determinants of Child Marriage in India: Evidences from Large-scale Surveys 
—Sanjay Kumar
Frequently Asked Questions on Child Anthropometric Failures in India 
—Sunil Rajpal, Rockli Kim, Rajan Sankar, 
 
 
Alok Kumar, William Joe, S V Subramanian
Stagnancy in the Unmet Need for Family Planning in India 
—Purushottam M Kulkarni
Intimate Partner Violence: Effects on Maternity Care and Pregnancy Outcomes in India 
—Srinivas Goli, Md Juel Rana, Jitendra Gouda
Household Assets and Wealth Quintiles, India 2006–16: Insights on Economic Inequalities 
—Udaya Shankar Mishra, William Joe
For copies write to: 
Circulation Manager,
Economic & Political Weekly,
320–322, A to Z Industrial Estate, Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai 400 013.
email: circulation@epw.in
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
 PERSPECTIVES
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  june 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
31
Prachi Raj (prachiraj372@gmail.com) is an 
MPhil student at the Department of Political 
Science, University of Delhi.
Understanding Citizenship and 
Refugees’ Status in India
Prachi Raj
This article seeks to argue that 
India’s kindness for some refugee 
communities and ignorant 
behaviour for Muslim refugees 
has raised doubts on its way of 
refugee dealings, and has posed 
questions on the very secular face 
of the Indian state.
T
he health and stability of a mod-
ern democracy depends not only 
on the justice of its basic structure 
but also on the qualities and attitudes of 
its citizens. Democracy as a form of life 
rests upon active consent and participa-
tion, but it is interesting to note that citi-
zenship is distributed according to pas-
sive criteria of belonging, like birth upon 
a piece of land, which is called jus soli; 
and ethnic belonging to a group of peo-
ple, which has been called as jus san-
guinis (Benhabib 1999). 
The contemporary global scenario is 
marked by the emergence of new forms 
of identity and difference politics. With 
proceeding globalisation and fragmen-
tation, a conﬂ ict between human rights 
and sovereignty claims has also in-
creased. On the one hand, a worldwide 
consciousness about universal principles 
of human rights is growing; and on the 
other, particula ristic identities of nation-
ality, ethnicity, religion, race, and lan-
guage along with the claim of sovereignty 
are also asserted. The right of a collectiv-
ity to deﬁ ne itself by asserting power 
over a bounded territory, creates a dis-
tinction between “us” and “them,” that 
is, between those who belong to the sov-
ereign people and those who do not.
Cross-border movements of popula-
tion in South Asia are regarded as a seri-
ous issue, which is seen as affec ting in-
ternal security, political stability, and 
international relations, and not only the 
structure and composition of the  labour 
market; which has seized the  attention 
of heads of governments in the region 
and have often been the basis for bilat-
eral negotiations. The thrust of several 
state policies within the region is to 
close borders and to clearly deﬁ ne who 
is a citizen in a particular region. This 
has become a challenging task both for 
the citizen as well as for the state 
 because historically, borders were not 
clearly demarcated or did not exist, 
 because of which people moved freely with 
little regard for national boundaries or 
legal notions of citizenship (Kymlicka and 
Norman 1994). For scholars like Myron 
Weiner (1993) the population ﬂ ows 
across the boundaries in South Asia are 
driven by political and econo mic cir-
cumstances, by which they often diminish 
the ethnic heterogeneity of the origin 
country, and have made the countries 
of destination more heterogeneous. A 
politically driven model of international 
migration is a highly conﬂ i ctual one 
both for the sending and rec eiving 
countries. Therefore, it has been argued 
that the disturbed zone of citizenship in-
side the nation state may not be resolved 
without resolving the contests beyond 
the nation state (Roy 2010). This article 
seeks to examine the ongoing debate 
over citizenship in a global era, and how 
the Indian state is dealing with the 
problem of refugees and immigrants.
Citizens and Citizenship
A citizen is deﬁ ned as someone who is a 
member of a national or political com-
munity and enjoys equal rights and res-
ponsibilities with all other citizens 
(Macfoy 2014). Citizenship has been 
viewed as a fruit of the modern state in 
which citizens are expected to be loyal 
to the cause of the state and willing to 
make all the sacriﬁ ces required, and in 
the same state, foreigners are suspected 
to be less trustworthy or even potential 
security risks (Hammar 1986). Citizen-
ship is the legally acknowledged mem-
bership of a state and is thus not volun-
tary. It is commonly invoked to convey a 
state of democratic belonging or inclu-
sion, yet this inclusion is usually prem-
ised on a conception of a community 
that is bounded and exclusive (Bosniak 
2006). The targeting of non-citizens as 
undeserving of public beneﬁ ts not only 
“jeopardised human rights of immi-
grants, it also reﬂ ects the existing and 
persistent devaluation of important fam-
ilies who experienced higher levels of 
hunger and food insecurity due to welfare 
reform” (Fujiwara 2005: 121).
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
PERSPECTIVES
june 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
32
Citizenship as an idea and as an ideal 
institution has several regressions, incom-
pleteness, contests, and often represent 
an axis of subordination, which have 
been seen as “discontents” by many 
scholars, and therefore becomes rele-
vant in postcolonial societies like India, 
which has been marked by hierarchies 
of caste, class, race, religion, and gender. 
The principle of equality as an abiding 
feature of citizenship remains elusive 
and fettered. It is the civic community, 
which is often considered as an impor-
tant goal of citizenship (Jayal 2013).
Part II of the Constitution and the Citi-
zenship Act, 1955 deﬁ ne citizenship and 
prescribes several rules for its acquisition. 
Articles 5 to 9 of the Constitution deﬁ ne 
citizenship at its commencement. The 
mode of acquisition of citizenship through 
birth, descent, naturalisation and incor-
poration of territory, after the commence-
ment of the Constitution is provided in 
Sections 3 to 7 of the Citizenship Act, 1955. 
However, it is unclear about the stateless 
individual who is recognised as a refugee 
by the United Nations High Com missioner 
for Refugees (UNHCR) and will be able to 
invoke citizenship for her child (Chaud-
hury and Samaddar 2015).
In the contemporary era of globalisa-
tion, citizenship is not conﬁ ned to a  single 
state but is virtually global in its extent, 
which has two aspects: ﬁ rst, emerging 
from normative cosmopolitanism it has 
an enduring cosmopolitan conscious-
ness, which is superior to nati onalism; 
and second, the globality of citizenship 
consists in the belief that globalisation 
has created the material conditions in 
which cosmopolitan existence may be 
possible (Roy 2010). Universal human 
rights transcend the rights of  citizens 
and extend to all persons considered as 
moral beings. Therefore, citizenship has 
been deﬁ ned as a divided concept in the 
era of liberal democracies in which it 
stands for both universalist and exclu-
sionary commitments (Bosniak 2006). 
Who Is a Refugee in India?
International law deﬁ nes refugees as 
persons who have been forced to ﬂ ee the 
country of their origin and are unable or 
unwilling to return there due to the fear 
of persecution on account of their race, 
religion, ethnicity, and political beliefs 
 (Bhattacharjee 2008). Refugees are seen 
as threatening a host country’s security 
by increasing demands on its scarce 
 resources or threatening the security of 
regions by their sheer presence. They are 
different from other migrants or  aliens 
because they are compelled to ﬂ ee from 
their country, unlike the latter who 
 legally or illegally voluntarily leave their 
home country for a host of reasons. Refu-
gee ﬂ ows have assumed heightened sig-
niﬁ cance as potential triggers of interna-
tional intervention. The claim that cer-
tain individuals pose a “national security 
threat” has been misguided throughout 
history to prevent political dissidents 
from entering countries and has led to 
the creation of categories of “unwanted” 
aliens (Benhabib 1999). 
India has not deﬁ ned clearly the cate-
gory of refugees. Their status is predom-
inantly determined by the extent of pro-
tection they receive from the Govern-
ment of India, which in turn has often 
been inﬂ uenced by political equations 
than by humanitarian or legal obliga-
tions. The largest single bilateral ﬂ ow in 
South Asia took place in 1947 when the 
partition of the Indian subcontinent 
took place, and in 1971 when Bangladesh 
became independent. Nearly seven mil-
lion Bengali Hindus had crossed the bor-
der into West Bengal, Tripura, and Assam 
to refugee camps built and sustained by 
the Indian government (Weiner 1993). 
Unlike the earlier population movements, 
the present international migration ﬂ ows 
within South Asia are largely unaccepta-
ble, uncontrollable, and a source of con-
ﬂ ict among countries of the region and 
often within the receiving country. On 
the one hand, certain refugee communi-
ties like Sri Lankan Tamils, Chakma, 
and  Tibetan refugees have received suf-
ﬁ cient protection by the Indian state. On 
the other hand, refugee communities 
like Bangladeshi Muslims, Afghans, Bur-
mese, and many others following Islam 
have witnessed several discriminations 
by the same state. They have not ens ured 
any kind of protection from the govern-
ment as such. Chin refugees in Mizoram 
have assimilated into local communities 
and have not been recognised or ac-
knowledged either by the  UNHCR or the 
Indian state. Due to which they are sub-
jected to persistent harassment and abuse 
from their employers and police. This 
raises a question: How can the Indian state, 
which proudly declares itself as secular, 
have two kinds of treatments or measures 
to deal with refugee communities? 
According to Myron Weiner (1993), 
refugees are not passive actors, and the 
poli tical inﬂ uence of refugees on the 
host government is enhanced by their 
ties to local ethnic kinfolk. For scholars 
like B S Chimni (2000: 244), in the era 
of globalisation, 
humanitarianism present in the Interna-
tional law, which is mainly the ideology of 
 hegemonic states, is causing the erosion of 
the fundamental principles of refugee pro-
tection and is transforming the very charac-
ter of UNHCR, by manipulating the language 
of human rights to legitimise a range of dubi-
ous practices.
Unable to control entry, governments of-
ten attempt to inﬂ uence the exit policies 
of their neighbours. Several strategies to 
deal with an unwanted and unacceptable 
entry have been applied by the govern-
ment. Exercising diplomatic pressure on 
the sending country, armed intervention, 
border clashes, as well as violent attacks 
and abuses by the local elites of the re-
ceiving country have often been applied. 
Jacques Derrida’s (2005) idea of “unc-
onditional hospitality” implies the wel-
coming of the foreigner before imposing 
any conditions on them, it must address 
the other. Enabling refugees to use the 
law and legal mechanisms to protect 
and advance their rights and acquire 
greater control over their lives could 
have important implications. The incre-
asing signiﬁ cance of citizenship in social 
policy perpetuates a persistent devalua-
tion of immigrant families. Therefore, 
legal empowerment has been regarded as
the potential to improve the administration 
of justice within refugee camps, to increase 
available at
Gyan Deep
Near Firayalal Chowk,
Ranchi 834 001, Jharkhand
Ph: 09470564686
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
PERSPECTIVES
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  june 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
33
the accountability of host state authorities 
and aid providers, and to contribute to the 
achievement of  durable solutions either by 
providing the skills and knowledge to facili-
tate resettlement or local integration or by 
emp owering refugees to be actors in reset-
tlement and transitional justice initiatives.
(Purkey 2013: 260)
Rohingyas and Statelessness
The 1954 UNHCR convention relating to 
the status of stateless persons deﬁ ned a 
stateless person as someone who is not 
considered as a national by any state 
 under the operation of its law. Rohingya 
refugees are a glaring example of a 
stateless community. In India, they have 
been represented as foreigners, suspec-
ted Bangladeshi nationals, and impover-
ished, and therefore a large number 
have been and continue to be arrested 
for violation of the Foreigners Act, 1946, 
and the Passports (Entry into India) Act, 
1929 along with other legislation. The 
Rohingya Muslims who have been forci-
bly ousted from Myanmar are living pre-
carious lives, and have ﬂ ed mainly to India 
and Bangladesh. The military assault on 
them in Myanmar compelled a large 
number of them to ﬂ ee the country in or-
der to save their lives. They are mainly 
the Burmese Muslims, bilingual Bengali 
and Burmese speaking people. They ﬂ ed 
in early 1978 as well when the Burmese 
government launched a movement to 
check on “illegal immigrants,” followed 
by several  interventions made by the 
Burmese Army in the effort to end local 
insurgency in the Arakan region. They 
are mainly the descendants of agricul-
tural labou rers who had migrated from 
Bengal to the Arakan region when bor-
ders were not clearly demarcated. They 
were compelled to ﬂ ee as they were 
lacking nati onal registration certiﬁ cates 
and thus were unable to prove their 
 Burmese citizenship. They are now the 
world’s most persecuted minority with-
out citizenship. 
Because of their continuous ﬂ eeing 
due to persecution, and in search of live-
lihood they have been considered as the 
“boat people” (Chaudhury and Samaddar 
2015). In the latest round of citizenship 
veriﬁ cation process initiated in 2015, 
the Rohingyas in Myanmar were asked 
to identify themselves as Bengalis and 
provide evidence of three generations 
of ancestry. They do not have access to 
government jobs or education. Under 
 international law, they are considered as 
de jure stateless, that is, a person who is 
not considered as a national by any state 
 under the operation of its law. To over-
come the profound vulnerability that 
 affects stateless people, the convention 
upholds the right to freedom of move-
ment for stateless persons lawfully on 
the territory and requires states to pro-
vide them with identity papers and travel 
documents (UNHCR 1954). The 1961 Con-
vention on the Reduction of Stateless-
ness sets certain rules for the conferral 
and non-withdrawal of citizenship to 
prevent cases of statelessness from aris-
ing, by requiring states to grant citizen-
ship to children born on their territory, 
or born to their nationals abroad, and by 
prohibiting the withdrawal of citizen-
ship from states’ nationals. Despite such 
rules, there has been rarely any improve-
ment in Rohingyas’ situation. Therefore, 
it can be argued that the use of legal citi-
zenship status as a form of demarcation 
for entitlement to life-sustaining bene-
ﬁ ts further delineates immigrants and 
refugees as “outside” the social, politi-
cal, and economic policy of the nation.
CAA and NRC
The Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 
2019, which was passed recently, updates 
the existing Citizenship Act, 1955, in 
 order to provide Indian citizenship to 
minority communities ﬂ eeing persecution 
from neighbouring countries. It seeks to 
offer citizenship to Hindus, Parsis, Bud-
dhists, Sikhs, Jains, and Christians from 
Bangladesh, Afghanistan, and Pakistan. 
The clear intention behind bringing it, is 
to grant citizenship to Hindus ﬂ eeing 
persecution in Muslim-majority countries 
neighbouring India, which was clearly 
mentioned in the election manifestos of 
the present ruling party. However, this 
initiative could be seen as one of the 
 important Hindutva project, which has se-
rious implications for both the Muslim 
immigrants as well as Muslims residing 
in India itself. The act has created a cli-
mate of tension in the country, as it vio-
lates the basic principles and secular val-
ues of the Constitution since it proposes 
to club religion and citizenship together. 
The CAA and NRC were strongly opposed 
not only by the Muslim population of the 
country, but also sparked several protests 
across the educational campuses. Along 
with this, several states also passed resolu-
tions against it. 
Clearly, the initiative sparked a serious 
bifurcation between those supporting 
and opposing it. The NRC has been 
brought with an intention of preventing 
Muslim immigrants specially from acq-
uiring certain rights and beneﬁ ts in India. 
People were told to prove their descend-
ance of Indian citizenship by showing 
legacy data and the lineage, in order to 
get registered on the NRC. This sparked 
another protest and a pan-India campaign 
with a slogan of “Kaagaz nahi Dikhay-
enge” (we will not show our papers). It 
can be argued here is that NRC and CAA 
have been used as a political tool to 
identify and harass Muslims residing in 
India, and was implemented immedi-
ately after the persecution of Rohingyas 
in South Asia, as the Indian state did not 
want to take the responsibility of provid-
ing  shelter to Muslim immigrants. 
The union home minister’s declaration 
regarding the implementation of NRC on 
a pan India level for identifying “intrud-
ers” is a good example to show the Hin-
dutva agenda of the Indian right wing. 
His famous “chronology” of amending 
CAA ﬁ rst for providing citizenship to 
non-Muslim refugees, and then intro-
ducing NRC to identify intruders not only 
targets and excludes a huge chunk of 
Muslim population regardless of their 
ancestry by snatching their citizenship 
rights, but also enlarges the category of 
stateless people. It is unclear what will 
happen to them next, how to deal with 
their problems, as neither can they be 
deported to India, Bangladesh, Pakistan 
or to any other South Asian country due 
to lack of arrangements. More over, such 
identiﬁ cation will also intensify the per-
secution of already persecuted Muslim 
immigrants like Rohingyas, furthering 
their victimisation of statelessness. 
Refugees and the Constitution
The Constitution of India guarantees 
certain rights to all persons within 
 India. Though the word “refugee” is not 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
PERSPECTIVES
june 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
34
mentioned as such, the outsider people 
or those who are not Indian citizens are 
termed as “aliens” in the Constitution. 
Hence, certain fundamental rights have 
been granted to the people seeking asy-
lum in India. These rights are equality 
before law under Article 14 of the Con-
stitution, which states that the state 
shall not deny to any person equality 
 before the law or the equal protection of 
the laws within the Indian territory. 
Protection of life and liberty under 
 Article 21 is another right, which states 
that no person shall be deprived of his 
life or personal liberty except according 
to the due procedure established by law. 
The Supreme Court of India further 
 expanded this right in Louis De Raedt v 
Union of India (1991) and State of 
Arunachal Pradesh v Khudiram Chakma 
(1993) cases and included foreigners 
under the ambit of this law (Bhattacha-
rjee 2008). The right to a fair trial has 
also been included in this right which is 
uniformly applicable to both citizens 
and aliens. Articles 245 and 246 gives 
power to the central government to frame 
laws with respect to matters that broadly 
fall  under subjects relating to foreigners, 
 aliens, and immigrants (Chaudhury and 
Samaddar 2015).
The legal framework to protect refu-
gees in India has been often character-
ised by an eclectic interplay of adminis-
trative ad hocism and judicial assertion 
of constitutional rights (Bhattacharjee 
2008). The Constitution provides cer-
tain fundamental rights that often have 
been further expanded by the Indian 
 Judiciary. A glaring example for this 
 argument could be the case of National 
Human Rights Commission v State of 
Arunachal Pradesh (1996), in which the 
Supreme Court of India restrained the 
forcible  expulsion of Chakma refugees 
from the state. Further, the court direc-
ted the state government to ensure that 
the life and personal liberty of each 
and every Chakma residing within the 
state should be protected. However, the 
inconsistent and arbitrary government 
policies, which have been dictated 
more by political exigencies than by 
 legal  imperatives have often created an 
obstruction in accessing these rights 
and institutions.
Need for the Refugee Law
India is one of the most prominent refu-
gee receiving countries in the world. The 
Indian state has treated a few refugee 
communities reasonably well but has not 
formulated a well-deﬁ ned refugee law. 
The absence of clearly deﬁ ned statutory 
standards subjects refugees and asylum 
seekers to inconsistent and arbitrary 
government policies. The Foreigners Act 
of 1946 highlights the ad hoc  nature of 
refugee law and practice in  India. The 
Indian state lacks a national refugee law 
which can specify the rights of and gov-
ern the treatment of refugees. This lack has 
subjected different refugee communities 
to varying standards of protection. The 
Citizenship (Amen dment) Bill, 2016 re-
ﬂ ected this. Normatively, India seems to 
be committed to refugee protection, but 
practically she treats different commu-
nities differently. India has not signed 
either the 1951 United Nation’s Conven-
tion Relating to the Status of Refugees 
or the 1967 Protocol. It has been argued 
by many that the reason behind India’s 
 refusal to sign the convention was that it 
was very Euro centric. Yet, India has rec-
ognised the right of refugees to non-
refoulement and has maintained its basic 
commitment to humanitarian protection 
of refugees. In fact, India has signed 
 numerous  human rights instruments 
and is a party to the Universal Declara-
tion on Human Rights 1948, International 
Convention on Civil and Political Rights 
1966, etc, which demands an obligation 
to secure to refugees a right to status 
determi nation, and India did so.
In Conclusion
It can be concluded that the Indian law 
and the state practice provide distorted 
and incomplete protection to refugees. 
In fact, initiatives like the CAA and NRC, 
which clearly discriminate against a 
particular community have created sev-
eral problems among its own citizens. 
The lack of refugee laws and clarity 
regar ding refugees has created several 
problems in accessing institutions for 
the sake of the protection of the refugee 
community in India. The Indian state’s 
divisive way of treating certain refugee 
communities differently has resulted in a 
fear of persecution and helplessness 
among them, which also poses a ques-
tion mark over the secular nature of the 
former. The absence of a national law on 
protection, rights, and entitlements of 
refugees has resulted in the  denial of 
 basic protection and has further pushed 
them into a condition of vulnerability. 
This has also made the refugees 
 dependent on the state and they have no 
 recourse against systematic violations 
made by the state itself. The Indian law 
is  inadequate to deal with the problem of 
statelessness. For stateless people like 
the Rohingyas, the Indian state neither 
 offers protection nor avenues to legal 
 residence in the country, due to which 
they are witnessing continued detention 
and arrests.
References
Benhabib, S (1999): “Citizens, Residents and Aliens 
in a Changing World: Political Membership in 
the Global Era,” Social Research, Vol 66, No 3, 
p 709.
Bhattacharjee, S  (2008): “India Needs a Refugee 
Law,” Economic & Political Weekly, Vol 43, No 9, 
pp 71–75.
Bosniak, L (2006): The Citizen and the Alien: Dilem-
mas of Contemporary Membership, New Jersey: 
Princeton University Press.
Chaudhury, S B and R Samaddar (2015): Rohing-
yas: The Emergence of a Stateless Community, 
Kolkata: Mahanirban Calcutta Research Group.
Chimni, B (2000): “Globalisation, Humanitari-
anism and the Erosion of Refugee Protection,”  
Journal of Refugee Studies, Vol 13, No 3.
Derrida, J (2005): “The Principle of Hospitality,” 
Parallax, Vol 11, No 1, pp 6–9.
Fujiwara, L (2005): “Mothers without Citizenship: 
Asian Immigrant and Refugees Negotiating 
Poverty and Hunger in Post-Welfare Reform,” 
Race, Gender & Class, Vol 12, No 2, pp 121–41. 
Hammar, T (1986): Citizenship: Membership of a 
Nation and of a State, International Migration, 
Vol 24, pp 735–48.
Jayal, N G (2013): Citizenship and Its Discontents: An 
Indian History, US: Harvard University Press.
Kymlicka, W and W Norman (1994): “Return of the 
Citizen: A Survey of Recent Work on Citizen-
ship Theory,” Ethics, Vol 104, No 2, pp 352–81. 
Macfoy, M K (2014): “Introduction: Who is a Citizen? 
Feminism, Multiculturalism and Immigra-
tion,” Citizenship, R Bellamy and M K Macfoy 
(eds), Vol II, New York: Routledge. 
Purkey, A L (2013): “A Digniﬁ ed Approach: Legal 
Empowerment and Justice for Human Rights 
Violations in Protracted Refugee Situations,” 
Journal of Refugee Studies, Vol 27, No 2.
Roy, A (2010): Mapping Citizenship in India, New 
Delhi: Oxford University Press.
UNHCR (1954): “Convention Relating to the Status 
of Stateless Persons,” United Nations High Com-
missioner for Refugees, https://www.unhcr.
org/en-lk/stateless-people.html.
—  (1961): “Convention on the Reduction of State-
lessness,” United Nations High Com missioner 
for Refugees, https://www.unhcr.org/ibelong/
wp-content/uploads/1961-Convention-on-the-
reduction-of-Statelessness_ENG.pdf.
Weiner, M (1993): “Rejected People and Unwanted 
Migrants in South Asia,” Economic & Political 
Weekly, Vol 28, No 34, pp 1737–47.
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
 SPECIAL ARTICLE
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
35
Use of Algorithmic Techniques for 
Law Enforcement
An Analysis of Scrutability for Juridical Purposes
Hans Varghese Mathews, Amber Sinha
Hans Varghese Mathews (hans@cis-india.org) is a distinguished fellow 
and Amber Sinha (amber@cis-india.org) is the executive director at the 
Centre for Internet & Society, Bengaluru.
The state has often sought to regulate the use of social 
media to prevent law and order issues or suspected 
criminal activities. In the light of the possibility of such 
state regulation and surveillance, the proposed use of 
the technique of sentiment analysis of social media data 
to guide actions of law enforcement agencies merits 
close scrutiny. What needs urgent attention is the 
existing legal standard that must govern the actions by 
these agencies, and how, if at all, may this standard be 
applied when the law enforcement action comes to be 
informed by the use of such techniques.
I
n July 2018, the Supreme Court of India agreed to hear a 
petition (Singh 2018) challenging the setting up of a social 
media communications hub by the Ministry of Information 
and Broadcasting (2018) to create digital proﬁ les of citizens, 
ostensibly to gauge their opinions about ofﬁ cial policies. Upon 
receipt of a notice from the Supreme Court and concerns 
raised by it about surveillance, the government withdrew the 
request for proposal and communicated its decision to not go 
ahead with the project (Hindustan Times 2018). However, 
there are several government agencies that already use social 
media analytics tools. 
Over the last few years, a number of state and central gov-
ernment initiatives have been announced in India, which 
mandate the analysis of social media data for use by the police.1 
Social media labs maintained by law enforcement agencies 
shall perform “public sentiment analysis” to “identify behav-
ioural patterns, inﬂ uences and advocates, track the change 
and increase in chatter and generate alerts in real time,” to 
enable the police “to take suitable action.”  The analysis will 
“generate tags to classify posts and comments on social media 
into either negative or positive according to a note by the 
 National Police Mission on use of the tool for surveillance for 
 police departments. It can also track users’ devices and their 
locations and send ‘alerts’ to authorities depending on the cri-
teria set by the authorities” (Srivastava 2018).
The proposed use of sentiment analysis of social media data 
to guide actions of law enforcement agencies is the subject of 
this article. We consider the question of the explicability of the 
scoring routines used in such techniques to arrive at inferenc-
es about the affect and the attitude of individuals.2 To put it 
simply, these conclusions about affect and attitude could then 
become the basis for law enforcement actions, if sentiment 
analysis becomes a prominent technique used by agencies or 
their technological partners. In this article, we look at the ex-
isting legal standard that must govern the actions by law en-
forcement agencies, and how, if at all, may this standard be 
applied when the law enforcement action comes to be in-
formed by the use of techniques such as sentiment analysis. 
We have tried to articulate legal complications for the juridi-
cal use of computational sentiment analysis ﬁ rst, and then 
tried to ground those complications in the learning algorithms 
themselves. Our strategy has been to examine a very simple 
but seemingly superior procedure for sentiment analysis—a 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
SPECIAL ARTICLE
JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
36
Naïve Bayes classiﬁ er, technically considered—and to exhibit 
even there an aporia which would defeat any direct reliance 
on its output; and argue that such difﬁ culties would only be 
compounded for more complex algorithms. The primary data 
in question when conducting sentiment analysis in this case 
are the posts, likes and other recorded behaviour by individu-
als on social media platforms. Social media platforms also col-
lect a considerable amount of data about other online activi-
ties of individuals (hereafter “additional data on online behav-
iour ”). This additional data on online behaviour might useful-
ly augment the primary data, that is, the data from social me-
dia posts recorded on social media. 
Prel iminaries
Judges relying on scientiﬁ c evidence especially should consid-
er both the extent and the stability of expert consensus on the 
fact in question, since advances in the scientiﬁ c community 
are achieved often enough by practitioners seeking to conﬁ rm, 
falsify or modify substantially the claims of their fellows. To 
assess the extent and stability of expert consensus would be 
difﬁ cult in an empirical practice whose apparatus and experi-
mental protocols are conspicuously changeable, as they often 
are in the life sciences for instance.3 Where facts in question 
are things routinely at issue and have come to be decided by 
settled procedure in science or technology—for instance, the 
metallurgy and classical mechanics that a ballistics expert 
would rely on—it is easier for judges to elicit the state of con-
sensus, and judicial precedents could sufﬁ ciently guide the 
due determination of a contested fact. But computational sen-
timent analysis is a novel thing, and not even its enthusiasts 
will claim that inferences to attitude and affect have come to 
be done in settled ways.
What follows is intended for the general reader, and some 
technical preliminaries would be in order here. We shall have 
to consider probabilities that are assigned, in the case at hand, 
to the possible values x of a discrete random variable X. It is 
usual to denote with “p[X = x],” the probability that X takes a 
particular value x, which we shall further abbreviate as π[x]. 
Given discrete random variables X and Y, we shall have to con-
sider the conditional probability p[(Y = y) | (X = x)] of Y tak-
ing the value y given that X takes the value x—given by prior 
observation perhaps, or as supposition only—and we shall ab-
breviate that probability as π[y|x]. The symbol “≡” put be-
tween two expressions in sequence serves to deﬁ ne the ﬁ rst in 
terms of the second.
The analogue of the apparatus that we refer to here would 
be the scoring routine. A scoring routine assigns to each item 
of suitable input one or other “pole” of the sentiment being 
analysed, or declares the item “neutral” perhaps or indicative 
of indifference. The analogue of experimental protocol would 
be the preparation and redaction of the “raw” data—the re-
cord of expression and the registry of action which are de-
scribed above—to such input as the scoring routine expects. 
The conversion of raw data to expected input is generally 
termed feature extraction. Putting aside the additional data on 
online behaviour that sentiment analysts might use in tandem 
with it, we shall mainly consider the extraction of features 
from recorded text, since that is the most common and availa-
ble source of recorded expressions, or expressional raw data, 
as one might term it.
The primary data here is “unstructured” data: lingual ele-
ments and combinations evident to human readers are repre-
sented as strings of “alphanumeric” symbols recognisable to 
the machine. The task now is to select elements and combina-
tions which are pertinent to inferring the particular attitude or 
affect expressed. Affect and attitude are inferred statistically. 
The scoring routine arrives at a rule which will assign proba-
bilities to each of the discernible poles or states of mind lead-
ing to the data for every possible conﬁ guration of the expected 
input. This involves each lingual feature taken for a random 
variable. Its value is observed in a given passage of text as the 
count of its occurrences usually or in some cases its mere pres-
ence or absence, and ordering the features in some set way 
yields the random feature vector. The values of this random 
feature vector are the most common form of “structured” in-
put to scoring routines in sentiment analysis. A random vector 
X = X1 , X2, ... , Xq has random variables Xk for its components: 
its values are vectors x = x1, x2, ... , xq now, where xk is a value 
of Xk for 1  k  q, and the statement “(X = x)” records the con-
comitance (X1 = x1) & (X2 = x2)& ... &(Xq = xq) of the individu-
al circumstances (Xk = xk).
Learning Methods
The e xtracted features in X shall be lexical elements: substan-
tives or adjacent pairs of substantive and qualiﬁ er, “stemmed” 
to discount inﬂ ection4 and conjugation.5 These variables may 
be affected by salient collocations of words, which depend on 
each other in some lingually deﬁ nite and computationally dis-
cernible way. The “states of mind” here would be observed val-
ues of a random variable Y, and the training data for the scor-
ing routine will be a collection of observed feature vectors, 
each of which has been assigned a “state of mind.” This is done 
by estimating for each such x and each such y the conditional 
probability π[y|x] of y given x, usually, or the converse π[x|y] 
otherwise. The relation π[y|x] π[x] = π[x & y] = π[x|y] π[y], 
called Bayes’ Rule, links these probabilities. Whether one 
should use π[x|y] or π[y|x] depends on what is being inferred, 
and with any luck the appropriate probability would be as fea-
sible to compute as the other. Therefore, one crucial assump-
tion in all this is that the training data is a sample which repre-
sents well enough the lingual expression of the affect or atti-
tude being analysed. 
We have so far very summarily outlined what is known as 
supervised scoring: where the routine is guided by the states y 
paired to the feature vectors x in the training data. However, 
this is not so in the case of unsupervised scoring. In these cases, 
feature vectors are assigned poles or degrees of polarity by 
 assigning to each lingual feature some measure of polarity and 
then combining these measures in some plausible way. Thus, 
neither the “state-of-mind” nor any feature needs to be regard-
ed as a random variable whose values or ranges of value must 
have deﬁ nite probabilities, whether they are ascertainable or 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
SPECIAL ARTICLE
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
37
not. The adequacy of measurement would be assessed by such 
means as linguists possess, presumably of securing their con-
struals of lingual fact.
Sentiment analysts employ scoring routines of both sorts. 
However, neither forms of redaction of text to feature capture 
how syntax shapes locution and illocution.6 In instances where 
the affect or attitude is ambivalent or ambiguous, the contrac-
tion of a passage of text to feature vector would only serve to 
mask such ambivalence or ambiguity, and, more likely, con-
found it with indifference should the raw data contain expres-
sions of indifference. Even sanguine computational linguists 
would not contest that such representational coarseness is a 
defect. While one may make allowances for this defect when 
these techniques are used to guess consumer preferences, it is 
however another matter when sentiment analysis is used in 
ways that requires judicial scrutiny and oversight, and has a 
clear impact on the rule of law and the human rights of privacy, 
liberty and free speech. 
Sentiment Analysis in Law Enforcem ent
Even though its framers deliberately kept the words “due pro-
cess of law” out of the Indian Constitution, subsequent years of 
jurisprudence have adopted some versions of the American 
constitutional law doctrines of “procedural due process” and 
“substantive due process” within the meaning of phrase “pro-
cedure established by law” under Article 21 (Maneka Gandhi v 
Union of India 1978). In criminal law, statutes that deﬁ ne of-
fences and prescribe punishments are considered “substan-
tive,” while others which relate to matters of process are con-
sidered “procedural.” It is now accepted law that a procedural 
law which deprives “personal liberty” has to be “fair, just and 
reasonable, not fanciful, oppressive or arbitrary.” 
During investigations, as per the Code of Criminal Proce-
dure, law enforcement ofﬁ cers can take certain actions on the 
basis of “reasonable suspicion”7 and “reasonable grounds.”8 In 
the life cycle of actions by law enforcement agencies and the 
courts, starting from the opening of investigation followed by 
arrest, trial, conviction and sentencing, we see that as the indi-
vidual is subject to increasing incursions or sanctions by the 
state, it takes a higher standard of certainty about wrongdoing 
and a higher burden of proof. In the subject of immediate 
 interest, actions taken by law enforcement agencies, such as 
surveillance or arrests based on the use of sentiment analysis 
would be subject to the standard of due process. However, 
there is no way to judicially examine the reasonableness of 
such an action if the process is not explainable.
The impact of sentiment analysis on law enforcement prac-
tices is at the level of both investigations and judicial examina-
tions, that is, how insights from such methods are acted upon 
by law enforcement agencies and how courts interpret them. 
In the context of investigations, it would be worthwhile to look 
at existing legal standards that could govern the use of such 
tools by the agency in question. Andres Ferguson (2017) has 
analysed the use of predictive techniques in the context of ar-
eas where the police already uses “prediction” while arriving 
at “probable cause” or “reasonable suspicion,” and see how 
predictive policing may reconﬁ gure such concepts. In India, 
upon “reasonable grounds,” the police are allowed to conduct 
a warrantless search.9 While this practice is common in other 
jurisdictions also, in India, the police can arrest a person with-
out warrant10 for cognizable offences11 as well. 
The standard for “reasonable suspicion” was articulated 
well by the Supreme Court when it held in State of Punjab v 
Balbir Singh (1994) that there must be a “reason to believe that 
such an offence ... has been committed and, therefore, an 
 arrest or search was necessary.” Further, the police must have 
“acted in a bona ﬁ de manner” as borne out by the facts and 
circumstances of the case (State of Punjab v Balbir Singh 1994) 
and not merely subject to the subjective satisfaction of the 
 ofﬁ cer (Partap Singh v Director of Enforcement 1985). There-
fore, the requirement of reasonable suspicion demands acting 
in good faith. However, Indian courts stop short of elaborating 
on this standard in terms of how factors such as an informant’s 
tips12 and proﬁ ling, which involve some level of prediction, 
measure against it. Therefore, use of techniques such as senti-
ment analysis not only gives greater powers to the police to 
arrest people without warrants, but may require a judicial 
 re-examination of the standard of “reasonable suspicion.”
In cases of law enforcement’s use of sentiment analysis, 
whether to arrest or investigate further, if online behaviour or 
speech of individuals are computationally inferred to disclose 
affect or attitude that suggests criminal intent, then any pro-
ceedings on the basis of an opaque inferential procedure 
would have questionable legal basis. To proceed in such cases 
without demonstrable and articulable reasons would amount 
to acting in an arbitrary manner. It is worth asking if the mis-
use of authority here can be mitigated by requiring that ofﬁ -
cials act only upon statistically decisive results where the scor-
ing routine returns values are extreme enough, within some 
likely distribution of such returns. However, any such attempts 
to devise measures of decisiveness for unsupervised scoring 
routines would have to be preceded by linguists devising com-
putable ways of telling earnest speech from ambivalent or am-
biguous speech. This would also involve the empirical calcula-
tion of the likelihood of “dangerous” affect and attitude turn-
ing into actual criminal acts. But expression need not end in 
act ion, and the inferential opacity would prevent human rea-
soning of how social media expressions lead to ofﬁ cial actions 
in any particular case, and render ofﬁ cial decision arbitrary by 
its very nature.
Supervised Learning
In this sectio  n, we provide an account of the inferential opac-
ity of tools using sentiment analysis. Our example is taken 
from a recent text (Agarwal and Mittal 2016) which could 
serve interested readers as a primer on sentiment analysis. 
We give a bare account here, leaving details to the technical 
appendix (Sinha and Mathews 2020). We noted earlier that 
supervised algorithms use labelled training data, where each 
item of a  recorded text or document has been ascribed one or 
other pole of sentiment usually: poles we shall term positive and 
negative simply, and denote with “+” and “−” from now on. 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
SPECIAL ARTICLE
JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
38
The preparation of the raw data here, for our supervised ex-
ample, reduces each document D to an input vector x = (x1, x2, 
... , xq) of zeroes and ones ﬁ nally, where each xk is taken as the 
value of a random variable Xk, taking these two values only. 
We shall in due course look at how these Boolean predictors 
are constructed. The components of x are taken to record the 
presence or absence of the respective features now, with “1” 
recording presence and “0” recording absence, and each x 
comes tagged with a “+” or a “−” here, with the labels taken 
to record the values of a random variable Y taking two values 
only again, though neither affect nor attitude is plausibly 
 binary. It is usual to call Y the response variable: the locution 
is apt enough when the tagging is done by a random sample of 
human readers.
For ease of writing and reading, let Y (+) denote the cir-
cumstance that Y is positive and, likewise, let Y (−) denote the 
circumstance that Y is negative. Let o(x) denote the observed 
concomitance of the features present in x, ignoring absent 
ones. The algorithm seeks to estimate for each possible input 
vector x, the two probabilities p[o(x) & Y (+)] and p[o(x) & Y 
(−)], now the chances that the features present are conjoined 
with Y (+) and Y (−) respectively. Let π[+] denote the proba-
bility that Y is positive and π[−] the probability that Y is nega-
tive: the total probabilities, it is usual to say, that the circum-
stances Y (+) and Y (−) obtain. The estimation proceeds by 
estimating the two conditional probabilities p[o(x) | Y (+)] 
and p[o(x) | Y (−)] ﬁ rst, which taken with π[+] and π[−] 
 respectively give us
p[o(x) & Y (+)] = p[o(x) | Y (+)] π[+] 
p[o(x) & Y (−)] = p[o(x) | Y (−)] π[−]
by Bayes Rule. For circumstances A and B, recall that p[A|B] is 
the probability of A’s obtaining given that B obtains—given by 
fact or supposition—and the conditional probabilities here 
should be interpreted thus. We write “s+(x)” for the probability 
p[o(x) | Y (+)] now, for ease of reading, and write “s−(x)” for 
p[o(x) | Y (+)] likewise. Then, s+(x) is the chance of observing 
the features present in x on the supposition that Y is positive 
and, likewise, s−(x) is the chance of observing those on the 
supposition that Y is negative.
In specifying s+(x) and s−(x), the procedure makes the cru-
cial assumption now that the random variables Xk become mu-
tually independent on either prior supposition: that the value 
any one of them might thereupon take, in any particular ob-
served x here would not depend on the value any other takes. 
Such assumptions of conditional independence can seldom be 
substantiated, on which account procedures employing them 
are said to use Bayes’ Rule in a naïve fashion. To suppose so for 
predictors of affect or attitude that are constructed from lin-
gual elements seems particularly careless—even if the stand-
ard estimates of correlation among such variables, however 
those are constructed, should prove negligible—because de-
cided states of mind are least likely to make human beings use 
words as if one thing said had no bearing on the next. Just why 
this renders Naïve Bayesian inference opaque, in the case at 
hand at least, we shall try to bring out in a moment, for which 
we must set out the scoring routine in the algorithm. The two 
joint probabilities p[o(x) & Y (±)] are the respective products 
s±(x)π[±] now, and the rule is simple:  
(†) assign “+” to x whenever s+(x)π[+] > s−(x)π[−] by esti-
mation, and assign “−” to x otherwise.
The calculated estimates of the products s+(x)π[+] and 
s−(x)π[−] will differ almost always, one assumes, for the in-
ventors of the procedure do not bother to say how ties are to 
be handled. 
Inferential Opacity
But consider now that affect and attitude in individuals are 
much more likely to change than the ways of expressing or 
displaying them—more so in ﬂ uid and changeable situa-
tions—so the conditional probabilities s+(x) and s−(x) would 
be more securely estimated, generally, than the complemen-
tary total probabilities π[+] and π[+] could be. Suppose that 
the polarity of sentiment is being analysed in some ﬂ uid situa-
tion, then, and suppose it happens that for some particular in-
put vector x we get s+(x) > s−(x) but ﬁ nd that s+(x)π[+] < s−(x)
π[−] nonetheless. A careful approach may involve taking the 
document D redacted as x to be positive in sentiment now. But, 
individuals might be very much swayed however, in changea-
ble circumstances especially, by what others say and do: and 
taking D to be negative in sentiment might prove more pru-
dent altogether, despite the estimates of π[+] and π[−] being 
less secure than the estimates of s+(x) and s−(x). Only examin-
ing D itself can decide the question here—not any scrutiny 
of x, or elaboration of the calculations—and the aporia sufﬁ -
ciently exhibits as consequence the opacity that attends a rule 
of inference even so simple and direct as (†) above. We had 
posited the occlusion of ambivalence and ambiguity as one 
cause of inferential opacity in the computational ascription of 
affect or attitude: occlusion results from the redaction of text 
to features we said. We turn to that next. 
In the supervised procedure whose scoring routine we have 
just set out, the raw data is prepared by grouping extracted 
lingual features into clusters distinguished from each other by 
discrete degrees of polarity, with each feature being assigned 
to its cluster by considering the polarity of the documents 
 exhibiting that feature.13 With q clusters Φ1 , Φ2 , ... , Φq now, 
each consisting of a distinct subset of the extracted features, 
the raw documents are redacted to input vectors of uniform 
length q as follows. For every document D, take a vector 
whose each component is zero to begin with, and then for each 
1  k  q change the k-th component to 1 if D exhibits any of the 
features in Φk. The result will be our q-vector x = x1, x2, ... , xq 
of zeroes and ones representing D, and, as we saw, serving as 
input to the scoring routine just so.
The scoring method here requires, as we noted, that for 
each 1  k  q the value xk ∈ {0, 1} computed so be taken, prop-
erly or not, for the observed value of any one Boolean random 
variable Xk deﬁ ned on a probability space, whose elements are 
stretches of text produced in some speciﬁ ed discursive situa-
tion. The question of propriety arises because the process 
 generating the numbers depends very much on a particular 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
SPECIAL ARTICLE
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
39
sample of labelled documents. One must be conﬁ dent that if 
another sample of documents, picked at random out of the 
same discursive situation and labelled in a cognate way were 
to be processed in precisely the same manner, then for each 
index k ∈ {1, 2, ... , q} the resulting collection of values {xk} ∈ 
{0,1} would serve as observations of the same variable Xk 
again, even though the lingual features constituting the clus-
ter Φk might very well be different now, and, importantly, the 
measures of polarity assigned to the features might distribute 
themselves differently. 
How the redacting vectors x are obtained is set out in the 
technical appendix (Sinha and Mathews 2020) and the details 
there would incline a cautious person to regard such conﬁ -
dence as misplaced. The considerations we advance should tell 
against predictors depending so closely on a particular set of 
sampled responses and whether that independence of condi-
tioned events obtains now, which was required for the scoring, 
is another question. But one cannot argue with algorithmic 
success it appears, not in the business of artiﬁ cial intelligence 
at least, and the circumstance that their procedure seems to 
outperform more complex ones seems to be what matters most 
to its inventors.
The benchmark supervised technique in sentiment analysis 
seems to be the Support Vector Machine that we mentioned in 
passing, which the Naïve Bayesian procedure has bested on 
standard collections of training data prepared in a seemingly 
optimal way.14 But, the difference in accuracy here is not a 
 striking feature. In case a recorded expression is declared posi-
tive by one and negative by the other, the matter could not be 
decided with any authority by simply referring to some minor 
statistical success one procedure had over the other, with the 
training data prepared identically. The matter cannot be de-
cided so because the document may be using words that were 
not found in the training data. One should note now that the 
Support Vector Machine is designed, besides, to reduce gener-
alisation error for some due allowance of training error: the 
ﬁ rst sort being, in the case at hand, the mistaken ascriptions of 
pole that must be expected when new documents come to be 
scored, and the second sort being such mistakes made on the 
labelled training data itself. 
As learning algorithms, the ﬁ rst inferential procedure here 
is simple, while the second is very complex. The inference us-
ing Support Vector Machines is usually inscrutable, and the 
articulation of comprehensible rationales for their inferential 
results is an important project. The Deep Neural Network, 
 often contrasted with the Support Vector Machine, will show 
less training error, but is subject to greater generalisation 
 error. This makes the latter more reliable when, as is the case 
here, the training samples cannot be supposed to sufﬁ ciently 
exhibit the variation inherent in the process generating the 
data. But as we saw, algorithmic simplicity does not render 
machine inference less opaque, and the circumstance that 
very different sorts of opaque computation enjoy comparable 
predictive success in sentiment analysis is a good reason to 
deny their inferences any probative or evidentiary force in 
themselves.
Unsupervised Learning
Sentiment analysts empl oy unsupervised methods also and 
B Agarwal and N Mittal (2016) look at those. Here, each ex-
tracted feature is assigned some measure of positive or nega-
tive polarity without relying on any given random sample of 
observations (except in semi-supervised procedures where the 
polarities of a few key terms are learnt through supervision). 
To the extent that these networks incorporate the lingual re-
ﬂ exes of competent speakers, the measures they yield will be 
more reliable than numbers anyhow devised from sample 
data. Documents are scored by summing the measures for the 
features they exhibit, after weighting the features, and classed 
as positive or negative depending on the parity of the sum. 
But, there would surely be more than one scoring scheme—
varying according to how the context of an extracted feature is 
delimited for instance—and when two such schemes give con-
trary assessments of one document, the same aporia will re-
sult which we had set out for competing supervised methods. 
We shall summarily conclude then that, despite their superior 
incorporation of lingual competence, unsupervised methods 
of computational sentiment analysis do not enjoy any juridical 
advantage over their supervised counterparts.15 
While we have relied on one primary text to reach our con-
clusions, we have looked at other texts, including a recent and 
comprehensive volume on sentiment analysis (Liu 2015),16 to 
see that it does not contradict our claims. The cavalier attitude 
towards theoretical consilience exhibited here does not seem 
to have attracted any disapproval in the computational senti-
ment analysts’ community. While we are unable to support 
this claim through any empirical data, we note that the text in 
question has been published under the imprint of the reputa-
ble technical publisher Springer Verlag, and as such, would 
have undergone due review by one or more among the profes-
sional peers of its authors. 
We had earlier stated that additional data on online behav-
iour could augment the expressional data that is primary for 
computational sentiment analysis. Neither V Kecman (2005) 
nor B Liu (2015) talk  of other additional data on online behav-
iour, however, and we have found mention of it only in the 
 elementary primer (Dannemann and Hieman 2014), where 
 action accompanying expression online is seen as species of 
the honest signal, liminal to communication, which American 
behavioural science seems to have successfully calibrated 
(Pentland 2008). Features extracted from additional data on 
online behaviour could be thrown into the mix of course, for 
the Naïve Bayes algorithm—which is the one supervised pro-
cedure that N Dannemann and R Hieman (2014) look at—and 
help improve their performance. 
Such ancillary actions would not communicate affect or at-
titude, not how the liminal signalling measured in A Pent-
land’s (2008) work would certainly, and that is a theoretical 
complication perhaps unlikely to garner too much attention 
from data practitioners using sentiment analysis. It is not pos-
sible to say based on publicly available information whether 
the calculations intended to be employed by law enforcement 
agencies in India have devised sentiment-analysing algorithms 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
SPECIAL ARTICLE
JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
40
that incorporate additional data on online behaviour. The very 
novel business of “explicating artiﬁ cial intelligence” was men-
tioned at the beginning, and we must look at that now. After 
that, we shall touch in closing on the “purely detective utility” 
of computational sentiment analysis. The Support Vector 
 Machine and the Deep Neural Network were particularly men-
tioned above as contrasting sorts of learning algorithm.17 
Use of an Explicative Scheme
A decidedly pragm atic approach is taken in C Guestrin et al 
(2016) which sets out a general scheme to provide, for any par-
ticular deliverance by a given learning algorithm, a locally lin-
ear and interpretable approximation to that answer or deci-
sion. There are two requirements here: ﬁ rst that the random 
vector X of which the inputs x are instances should contain 
 interpretable real-valued components comprising a random 
vector Xι whose instances are interpretable counterparts xι of 
the inputs x, and, second, that the input vectors admit a natu-
ral distance between them. Let u be some ﬁ xed input for which 
deliverance is to be explicated. Now for any input x, the algo-
rithm will have proceeded on the basis of some computed sca-
lar quantity f(x) of an objective function f, and in Guestrin et al 
(2016), the interpretable linear approximation to f near u is a 
vector of real weights ωuι, which, applied to all inputs x in a 
sufﬁ ciently large sample S randomly drawn from the general 
vicinity of u, will minimise a scaled sum of squared differences 
between each f(x) and its weighted counterpart.18 
But one cannot take the vector of weights ωuι to explain how 
the algorithm arrived at f(u), if only because a different algo-
rithm and objective function may produce a similar interpre-
tive vector; and Guestrin et al (2016) actually describe its gen-
eral scheme as model agnostic. Why f scored u as it did would 
not be disclosed by ωuι either, unless one can assess how uι it-
self contributes to f(u), doing which would seldom be feasible 
for an algorithm whose success depends on learning some 
non-linear evaluating function. The scheme does not, more-
over, consider how the effective output of the algorithm is got 
from the values of the objective function.19 With regard to the 
computational ascription of attitude and affect from expres-
sional data, certainly, the most that such an explicative scheme 
will be able to provide, very likely, is just so much. Human 
persons might be able to use a weighting like ωuι above to 
 provide themselves some reason to answer or decide as the 
algorithm has. To claim any more than this would be risking 
too much, eve n if the weights in their relative sizes happen to 
mirror the subordination of interpretants, in accordance 
with relative importance, that human reasoning usually pro-
ceeds upon.
The explicative utility of “model agnostic explication” such 
as Guestrin et al (2016) propose would be limited to such retro-
spective adequation of algorithmic result to human answer or 
decision. This is so for any algorithm that using input derived 
from raw data, which persons themselves are able to reason 
with or act upon, attempts to answer a question or decide an 
action which persons do commonly or habitually answer or de-
cide themselves and are commonly able to themselves explain 
or account for; for any algorithm that replaces or displaces hu-
man doing in an interpretative practice, let us say, where indi-
vidual doing is discursively accountable to peers. The automa-
tion of daily life that machine learning is faci litating depends 
on inferential and decisional algorithms of this simulative 
sort, on artiﬁ cial agents that mimic individuals in their inter-
pretive capacity. 
Though we have only looked at sentiment analysis, and not 
at such interpretational artiﬁ cial intelligence, our ﬁ ndings 
may sufﬁ ce to lead to a conclusion that the state should resort 
to interpretational artiﬁ cial intelligence for public functioning 
only where there are reliable means for the retrospective ade-
quation of machine inferences to human reasoning. What we 
mean is that whenever inferences from machine learning algo-
rithms inform public functioning, they may only do so if there 
is way for a human agent to look at the available data that may 
have informed the inference, and discursively arrive at the 
same conclusions. 
Our proposed prohibition is stronger in effectively requiring 
prior explication, if opaque inference is to be acted upon. But 
unlike the EU General Data Protection Regulation’s right to 
 explanation, it does not apply to as broad a range of activities, 
but only where public functioning is involved. More impor-
tantly, the right to explanation only requires that the “mean-
ingful information about the logic involved, as well as the sig-
niﬁ cance and the envisaged consequences of such processing” 
be shared (European Parliament and Council of the European 
Union 2018). This would translate into only the general algo-
rithmic logic being made available. What it will not tell us is 
how a particular inference may have been reached. 
Conclusions 
It would be necessary to distinguish interpre tational fro m 
 other kinds of artiﬁ cial intelligence as there is an emphasis on 
machines “solving tasks that are easy for people to perform but 
hard for people to describe formally”—as a comprehensive 
primer on the Deep Neural Network by Y Bengio et al (2016: 1) 
put it—by solving “problems that we solve intuitively, that feel 
Through EPW Engage, 
our new digital initiative, we seek to
explore new and exciting possibilities
of communicating research in a
creative and accessible manner
to a wider audience.
www.epw.in/engage
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
SPECIAL ARTICLE
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
41
automatic, like recognising spoken words or faces in images.” 
The authors regard the adequate performance of such already 
automatic human actions as “the true challenge to artiﬁ cial 
intelligence” rather than the resolution of “problems that can 
be described by a list of formal, mathematical rules.” The 
 ongoing automation of daily life would be augmented by 
 getting the machine to do what human beings do by reﬂ ex or 
instinct, without discursive mediation of any overt kind. 
For such simulations of intuitive human actions, it may be 
argued that explanations of such algorithms may not hold as 
much importance, and they may remain as opaque as the 
working of the human autonomous nervous systems. Our 
recom mended prohibition and demand for retrospective a de-
quation may not be applicable to the use by the state for public 
purposes such intuitional artiﬁ cial intelligence. However, it 
would require further regulatory clarity on the nature of 
 distinction between interpretational and intuitive modes of 
machine learning.20
If we apply the same to sentiment analysis, when the data 
that trains the procedure is the primary data, as deﬁ ned ear-
lier, then the algorithm would be interpretational. However, 
reﬂ ex and instinct may play a greater role in improvising 
 expression, and an intuitional mode of machine learning 
might serve better in such cases. Additional data on online 
behaviour may serve as input less dubiously in the latter 
 situation, provided that questions concerning user privacy 
are adequately addressed. When it is available, the intuitional 
sentiment analysing procedure may possess a purely detec-
tive utility, as mentioned earlier. The Naïve Bayesian routine 
we examined in detail seems neither ﬁ sh nor fowl now with 
regard to the sentiment-analysing Support Vector Machine 
that it seemingly betters. 
We must mention that as per the paper itself, the explica-
tive scheme of Guestrin et al (2016) employed on the output of 
such procedures seemed to fail to provide the adequation of 
 machine inferences to human reasoning that our earlier 
 position demands. While we do not know what kind of algo-
rithms the law enforcement agencies in India plan to use, it is 
clear that the computational inference of affect and attitude 
is a novel and mutable thing. Therefore, it must be asked 
whether it is legitimate to use them for public functioning, 
particularly in cases which may lead to decisions affecting 
 actions which may infringe upon their fundamental rights. 
The open questions about the reliability of these technique s 
remain not least because the redaction of  expressional data 
to computationally tractable forms is distorting but also 
 because the development of computational resource and 
technique is what changes about inferential procedure here 
rather than reﬁ nements in the representation and formalisa-
tion of expression.
Notes
 1 In February 2016, it was reported that Indian 
National Security Council Secretariat had pro-
posed the setting up of a National Media Ana-
lytics Centre. This centre’s mandate would be 
to monitor blogs, media channels, news outlets 
and social media platforms (Ranjan 2016). 
   Several social media labs have also been set up 
allied to the police in a few India cities which 
would monitor “social media platforms, blogs 
and other public forums for malicious, violent, 
deleterious discussion and sentiments which 
may lead to public disaffection, agitation, riots, 
etc” (National Police Mission 2016: 3). 
 2 In this article, we use affect to describe the ex-
perience of feeling or emotion, and attitude to 
describe a set of emotions, beliefs, and behav-
iours towards a particular object, person, thing, 
or event, as used in psychology.
 3 We mean to employ the word apparatus in the 
way T Kuhn (1970) had in his now classic essay 
“The Structure of Scientiﬁ c Revolutions,”  and 
the protocols here are the prescribed ways of 
using the apparatus in experiments.
 4 In grammar in most languages, inﬂ ection is the 
modiﬁ cation of a word to express different 
grammatical categories such as tense, case, 
voice, aspect, person, number, gender and 
mood.
 5 In grammar, conjugation is the changing of a 
verb’s form to express a different person, num-
ber, tense, aspect, or gender. 
 6 While locution refers to the semantic or literal 
signiﬁ cance of the speech, illocution refers to 
the intention of the speaker. While not dis-
cussed, perlocution refers to how the speech is 
received by the listener.
 7 Section 49 (1) (a) of the Code of Criminal Pro-
cedure states as follows regarding when the 
police may arrest someone without a warrant: 
“(i) Any police ofﬁ cer may without an order 
from a magistrate and without a warrant, 
 arrest any person (a) who has been concerned 
in any cognizable offence, or against whom a 
reasonable complaint has been made, or credi-
ble information  has been received, or a reason-
able suspicion  exists, of his having been so 
concerned” (India Code nd).
 8 Section 165 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 
states as follows: “Whenever an ofﬁ cer in 
charge of a police station or a police ofﬁ cer 
making an investigation has reasonable 
grounds for believing that anything necessary 
for the purposes of an investigation into any of-
fence which he is authorised to investigate may 
be found in any place with the limits of the po-
lice station of which he is in charge, or to which 
he is attached, and that such thing cannot in 
his opinion be otherwise obtained without un-
due delay, such ofﬁ cer may, after recording in 
writing the grounds of his belief and specifying 
in such writing, so far as possible, the thing for 
which search is to be made, search, or cause 
search to be made, for such thing in any place 
within the limits of such station” (India Code nd).
 9  Refer to Section 165 of the Code of Criminal 
Procedure (India Code nd).
10   Section 41 (1) (a) of the Code of Criminal Proce-
dure states as follows: “Any police ofﬁ cer may 
without an order from a Magistrate and with-
out a warrant, arrest any person who has been 
concerned in any cognizable offence, or 
against whom a reasonable complaint has been 
made, or credible information has been re-
ceived, or a reasonable suspicion exists, of his 
having been so concerned” (India Code nd).
11  Cognizable offences have been deﬁ ned in Code 
of Criminal Procedure as follows—“‘cognizable 
offence’ means an offence for which, and ‘cog-
nizable case’ means a case in which, a police 
ofﬁ cer may, in accordance with the First Sched-
ule or under any other law for the time being in 
force, arrest without warrant” (India Code nd).
12  The law on veracity of tips in the United States 
was laid down in Illinois v Gates (1983). It was 
held that “an informant’s ‘veracity,’ ‘reliability,’ 
and ‘basis of knowledge’-remain ‘highly rele-
vant in determining the value’” of the said tip; 
“Anonymous tips need to be detailed, timely 
and individualised enough to justify reasona-
ble suspicion. And when the informant is 
known to be reliable, then his prior reliability 
may justify reasonable suspicion despite lack-
ing a basis in knowledge” (George 2015). 
13  How the clusters are got is detailed in Section 1 
of the technical appendix (Sinha and Mathews 
2020).
14  Details of the tests are provided in Section 3.4 
of the technical appendix (Sinha and Mathews 
2020).
15  The text (Agarwal and Mittal 2016) does not 
mention purely statistical unsupervised meth-
ods which might use expectation maximisation 
to assign poles for instance somewhat, as dis-
tinct common senses are assigned to polyse-
mous words. The recent text by F T Hristea 
(2013) details a Naïve Bayes algorithm for un-
supervised word sense disambiguation. T he 
primer (Dannemann and Heiman 2014) 
 mentions polarity measurement for extracted 
features using item response theory but we 
have not pursued that.
16  The author is an acknowledged authority in the 
ﬁ eld, we note, and an earlier version of his 
book is cited by our main text.
17  While J Diederich (2018) looks at explaining 
the deliverances of the ﬁ rst, W Samek et al 
(2017) review the state of things for the second. 
A general consideration of the matter, which 
consider the larger question of how “logic 
meets probability,” can be found in V Belle 
(2017).
18  The formula is set out in Section 2 of the tech-
nical appendix (Sinha and Mathews 2020).
19  The complication is detailed in Section 2 of the 
technical appendix as well (Sinha and 
Mathews 2020).
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
SPECIAL ARTICLE
JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
42
20 Here is one way of beginning, at least, the work 
of distinguishing between them: the running-
state variables of the procedure—which serve 
as endogenous data in the course of a run, as 
distinct from the exogeneous data supplied as 
initial input—those internal variables or indi-
ces would have to be constrained in a qualita-
tively different way for an interpretational 
learning algorithm than they might be for an 
intuitional one; and the burden of thinking 
now would be to characterise that qualitative 
difference.
References
Agarwal, B and N Mittal (eds) (2016): Prominent 
Feature Extraction for Sentiment Analysis, New 
York: Springer.
Bengio, Y, I Goodfellow and A Courville (2016): 
Deep Learni ng, Cambridge: MIT Press.
Belle, V (2017): “Logic Meets Probability: Towards 
Explaina ble AI Systems for Uncertain Worlds,” 
in Proceedings of the Twenty-Sixth Inter-
national Joint Conference on Artiﬁ cial Intelli-
gence (IJCAI-17), Melbourne, Australia, 19–25 
August.
Dannemann, N and R Heiman (2014): Social Media 
Mining with  R, Birmingham: Packt Publishing.
Diederich, J (ed) (2018): Rule Extraction from Sup-
port Vect or Machines, Berlin: Springer Verlag.
European Parliament and Council of the European 
Union (2018 ): “General Data Protection Regu-
lation,” https://gdpr-info.eu/.
Ferguson, A (2017): “Policing Predictive Policing,” 
Washington University Law Review, Vol 94, 
No 5, https://openscholarship.wustl.edu/cgi/
viewcontent.cgi?article=6306&context=law_
lawreview. 
George, Rohan (2015): “Predictive Policing: What 
Is It, How It Works, and Its Legal Implications,” 
Centre for Internet and Society, 24 November, 
https://cis-india.org/internet-governance/
blog/predictive-policing-what-is-it-how-it-
works-and-it-legal-implications.
Guestrin, C, M T Ribeiro and S Singh (2016): ““Why 
Should I Trust You?” Explaining the Predic-
tions of Any Classiﬁ er,” Arxiv.org, https://arxiv.
org/abs/1602.04938. 
Hindustan Times (2018): “Govt Withdraws Plan to 
Create Soci al Media Hub after Supreme Court’s 
‘Surveillance State’ Remark,” Hindustan Times, 
3 August, https://www.hindustantimes.com/
india-news/govt-withdraws-plan-to-create-so-
cial-media-hub-after-supreme-court-s-surveil-
lance-state-remark/story-wSXUk85H5Vo-
knObB9U3hrJ.html.
 Hristea, F T (2013): The Naïve Bayes Model for Unsu-
pervised Word Sense Disambiguation, Berlin: 
Springer Verlag.
Illinois v Gates (1983): 462 US 213.
India Code (nd): “The Code of Criminal Procedure, 
1973,” indiacode.nic.in, https://indiacode.nic.
in/bitstream/123456789/1611/1/a1974-02.pdf.
K ecman, V (2005): “Support Vector Machines—An 
Introduction,” Support Vector Machines: Theory 
and Applications, L Wang (ed), Berlin: Springer 
Verlag, pp 1–47.
Kuhn, T S (1970): The Structure of Scientiﬁ c Revolu-
tions, Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
L iu, B (2012): Sentiment Analysis and Opinion Min-
ing, San Rafael: Morgan & Claypool Publishers.
 — (2015): Sentiment Analysis, Mining Opinions, 
Sentiments, and Emotions, New York: Cam-
bridge University Press.
Maneka Gandhi v Union of India (1978): 1 SCR 621.
M inistry of Information and Broadcasting (2018): 
“Request for Proposals (RFP) Invited for Selec-
tion of Agency for SITC of Software and Ser-
vice and Support for Function, Operation and 
Maintenance of Social Media Communication 
Hub,” RFP Ref No: BECIL/Social Media/
MIB/02/2018-19, 25 April, https://www.becil.
com/uploads/tender/TendernoticeBECIL01p-
df-04836224e38fdb96422221c4e057f6c5.pdf.
National Police Mission (2016): “Project on Estab-
lishing Social Media Labs & Collection of Intel-
ligence from the Social Media,” Ministry of 
Home Affairs, Government of India, http://
bprd.nic.in/WriteReadData/userﬁ les/ﬁ le/201
608021159197579181SocialMediaLab-.pdf. 
P entland, A (2008): Honest Signals, London: MIT 
Press.
Partap Singh v Director of Enforcement, Foreign Ex-
change Regulation Act (1985): 3 SCC 72.
Ranjan, A (2016): “Now, Govt Cyber Cell to Counter 
‘Negative’ News,” Indian Express, 23 February, 
https://indianexpress.com/article/india/in-
dia-news-india/now-govt-cyber-cell-to-coun-
ter-negative-news/. 
Samek, W, T Wiegand and K Müller (2017): “Ex-
plainable Artiﬁ cial Intelligence: Understand-
ing, Visualizing and Interpreting Deep Learn-
ing Models,” Arxiv.org, https://arxiv.org/
abs/1708.08296.
Singh, A (2018): “Supreme Court Notice to Govt 
over Social Media Monitoring Hub,” LiveMint, 
13 July, https://www.livemint.com/Politics/
Dg8XuocPJe7fYWPn8kSo9N/SC-likens-govt-
social-media-hub-to-surveillance-state.html.
Sinha, Amber and Hans Varghese Mathews (2020): 
“Technical Appendix,” Centre for Internet & 
Society, http://cis-india.org/internet-govern-
ance/technical-appendix-to-use-of-sentiment-
analysis-by-law-enforcement-an-analysis-of-
scrutability-for-juridical-purposes/. 
Srivastava, K (2018): “40 Government Departments 
Are Using a Social Media Surveillance Tool—
and Little Is Known of It,” Scroll, 4 September, 
https://scroll.in/article/893015/40-govern-
ment-departments-are-using-a-social-media-
surveillance-tool-and-little-is-known-of-it.
State of Punjab v Balbir Singh (1994): 3 SCC 299, 
https://indiankanoon.org/doc/795643/.
Review of Urban Affairs
November 30, 2019
The Lives of Waste and Pollution 
—Amita Baviskar, Vinay Gidwani
Becoming Waste: Three Moments in the Life of Landfills in Mumbai City 
—Shireen Mirza
Urban Waste and the Human–Animal Interface in Delhi 
—Nishant Kumar, Aparajita Singh, 
 
 
Barbara Harriss-White
From Balmikis to Bengalis: The ‘Casteification’ of Muslims in Delhi’s Informal Garbage Economy 
—Dana Kornberg
Numbing Machines: Manual Scavenging’s Reconstitution in 21st-century Bengaluru 
—Shreyas Sreenath
Neo-liberalising Inclusion? Waste Picking, Data Activism, and the State 
—Harsha Anantharaman
The Colonial Roots of India’s Air Pollution Crisis 
—D Asher Ghertner
For copies write to: 
Circulation Manager,
Economic & Political Weekly,
320–322, A to Z Industrial Estate, Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, 
Lower Parel, Mumbai 400 013.
email: circulation@epw.in
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
 SPECIAL ARTICLE
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  june 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
43
The Naga Homeland Movement
Historical Trajectory and Contemporary Relevance
Kedilezo Kikhi
This article is a critical endeavour to situate the Naga 
homeland movement in the present context vis-à-vis 
the regional politics of the North East. It attempts to 
understand and (re)imagine the relevance of Naga 
homeland politics in the light of its expectations in the 
neo-liberal era. By revisiting and (re)defining the 
movement from the establishment of the Naga Club in 
1918 to the Naga Peace Accord in 2015, it highlights the 
policies and procedures that have intensified existing 
issues and suggests that the nexus of politicians, 
bureaucrats, contractors and underground leaders 
operates by exploiting the Naga issue rather than solving 
it, while sustaining and reproducing systemic corruption. 
This article is a revised version of a paper presented at the National 
Seminar “Identity, Politics, Ethnic Movements and Regionalism in the 
Context of India’s North East” organised by Omeo Kumar Das Institute 
of Social Change and Development, Guwahati during 24–25 March 2017. 
The author acknowledges and appreciates the referees for their valuable 
suggestions and critical feedback.
Kedilezo Kikhi (kedithejakikhi@yahoo.co.in) teaches sociology at Tezpur 
University, Assam.
N
orth East India has witnessed many ethnic conﬂ icts 
and insurgency movements that are inevitable given 
its ethnic diversity. Ethnic groups in the North East 
cannot be deﬁ ned on the basis of geographical–territorial 
cartography alone, considering the ﬂ uidity of the population 
in the region over centuries amidst constitutional boundaries. 
Although there is no unanimity about the causes of the home-
land movements or insurgencies, there is consensus that 
homeland movements are a political problem. In the begin-
ning of the 20th century, the Assamese people opposed the 
British move to make Assam a part of Bengal because the 
Assamese were against Bengali domination. Later on, many 
tribal groups in Assam itself demanded autonomy, saying that 
the Government of Assam had neglected them. This led to the 
creation of the autonomous district councils in the hill districts 
(except the Naga Hills) under the Sixth Schedule of the Consti-
tution. The Assamese language movement, which sought to 
make Assamese the ofﬁ cial language, was opposed by the trib-
als, and this led to the formation of Meghalaya and Mizoram. 
These developments triggered off a series of ethnic move-
ments like those of the Bodos, Karbis, Hmars, and other small-
er tribes. Thus, ethnic movements in the North East are em-
bedded in the very diversity of the region.
Although rooted in diversity, ethnic movements in the North 
East have arisen because of important historical reasons too. 
Ethnic groups lived in splendid and self-contented yet isolated 
existence from one another. The relationship between neigh-
bouring ethnic groups was often one of enmity marked by a 
situation of domination and subordination. With the establish-
ment of the colonial rule, a new trend towards integration be-
gan along with the spread of a market economy. But, such inte-
gration had not been realised with the decline of the colonial 
rule. Consequently, pluralism had not taken root in the North 
East at the time of Indian independence. Democracy turned 
out to be dominance by the larger groups, leading to a sense of 
deprivation among the smaller groups due to economic depri-
vation, discrimination in employment and political marginali-
sation. These deprivations are often exploited by leaders who 
have their own motivations. The worst form of deprivation is a 
threat to the very existence of an ethnic group as a distinct 
 sociocultural community. Ethnic movements in the North East 
have taken different forms, such as demands for secession and 
independence from the Indian Union, demands for separate 
states, and the demand for autonomous district councils under 
the Sixth Schedule and Fifth Schedule of the Constitution. 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
SPECIAL ARTICLE
june 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
44
The means adopted ranged from “war” waged against the 
 Indian Union, involving guerrilla tactics, to bandhs and demon-
strations. Notwithstanding their form and means adopted, 
these movements are best understood as political movements 
(Pakem 1993). Hence, scholars of the region agree that only a 
political solution can bring peace and stability in the North East.
The Nagas live in relative isolation as “border communities” 
alongside the other North East ethnic groups. Given the socio-
cultural sensitivities involved and anthropological histories of 
the different communities living within the cloistered protec-
tions of their respective tribes and clans, have these communi-
ties been able to cope with other ethnic groups and outsiders 
who have migrated to their regions as labourers, job-hunters 
and fortune-seekers? In the past, the experience of the people 
in this regard has not been pleasant, and the opaque and closed 
nature of these societies over generations has demonstrated 
their instinctive dislike for foreigners and “outsiders.” Pres-
ently, the people of Nagaland are confronted with the twin is-
sues of the denial of progress and lack of infrastructure, indus-
trialisation, development and job creation, and the loss of 
identity (or creation of new identities) that has emanated with 
changes in environment, ecology, means of livelihood, and ex-
propriation of land.
Conflict and Crisis 
Given the current conditions, the Naga society seems to have 
arrived into a Weberian situation. Max Weber analysed con-
ﬂ ict situations while contextualising the three related con-
cepts of stratiﬁ cation, conﬂ ict and change, and subsequently 
developed the principles of conﬂ ict. Most of these principles can 
be found in his discussion of the transition from societies based 
on traditional authority to those organised around rational–legal 
authority, that generates conﬂ ict conditions from within, and 
wherein the roles of the leaders become crucial.
Most conﬂ ict theorists seek to ﬁ nd out the consequences of 
conﬂ ict. George Simmel did not view social structure as domi-
nation and subjugation (as Karl Marx did), but he held that it 
was an inseparable mingling of associative and dissociative 
processes, which are separable only in analysis. Thus, Simmel 
held an organismic view of the social world. This subtle 
organicism led Simmel to seek out the consequences of conﬂ ict 
for social continuity rather than change (Simmel quoted in 
Ritzer 2013). Drawing from this discussion, one can ask: Is the 
Naga society in a conﬂ ict situation, and if so, why? Is conﬂ ict 
an inevitable element in the case of the Nagas? 
Weber argues there are three conditions why conﬂ ict 
becomes a crisis. And we can situate the present Naga context 
using the same conditions. One condition is a situation where 
there is a high degree of correlation between power, wealth 
and prestige, or incumbency in positions of political power 
(party), occupancy in advantaged economic positions (class), 
and membership in high-ranking social circles (status groups). 
This is a situation when economic elites, for example, are also 
social and political elites and vice versa. This group corresponds 
to the “Naga elites” of today constituting politicians, contrac-
tors and bureaucrats who have become capitalists of the state. 
The general Naga public, who constitute the second group, 
resent the concentration of power, wealth and prestige in the 
hands of a few Naga elites and subsequently become receptive 
to conﬂ ict alternatives. Another condition is dramatic discon-
tinuity in the distribution of rewards, or the existence of divi-
sions in social hierarchies that give privileges to a few. Tensions 
and resentments emerge when only a few hold or hoard pow-
er, wealth, and prestige, and the rest are denied these rewards, 
leading to ﬁ ght against the capitalists. A ﬁ nal condition 
encouraging conﬂ ict is the relative lack of social mobility. 
When those of lower rank have little chance to move up the 
social hierarchies or enter a new class, party, or status group, 
resentment starts accumulating. Those who are denied oppor-
tunities to increase their access to resources become restive 
and willing to challenge the existing system. The critical force 
that galvanises the resentments inhering in these three condi-
tions is leadership. Leaders emerge to challenge the existing 
system and mobilise resentments over the hoarding of re-
sources and the lack of opportunities to gain access to wealth, 
power, or prestige. This results in the beginning of a structural 
change (Turner 2011: 146–47).
The problem is further intensiﬁ ed with the impact of neo-
liberalism. Neo-liberalism involves the priority of the price 
mechanism, the free enterprise, the system of competition and 
a strong and impartial state (Plehwe 2016). There is a transi-
tion from laissez-faire (that is, without the intervention of the 
state) towards a market economy under the guidance and 
rules of a strong state (Bonefeld 2017). In other words, the cor-
porate elites or the tribal elites (as in the case of the Nagas) 
need the “state” to protect their wealth. I posit that a corrupted 
system involving a parasitic government and a subsequent 
parasitic society has been institutionalised in Nagaland with 
the advent of neo-liberal policies. Therefore, I ask: Who or 
what constitutes this state in Nagaland? What are the mecha-
nisms by which it becomes an unjust apparatus? Is this condi-
tion a perfect Althusserian situation where the state is used by 
the elites as an oppressive apparatus to exploit the common 
masses? Furthermore, if the state is not self-reliant in terms of 
revenues, can it sustain such a parasitic economy, and if so, 
for how long?
Chasie (1999) views that even after decades of the Indo–Naga 
conﬂ ict everyone has heard about the “Naga insurgency,” little 
attempt has been made to provide the more-psychological un-
derpinnings of the movement and the undercurrents that con-
tinue to play an important role in the conﬂ ict. Chasie (2017) 
has also argued how the Nagas have failed to realise the 
 undercurrents that have been at work in the Naga society. 
available at
People’s Book House
Mehar House, 15 Cawasji Patel Road, Fort, Mumbai 400 001
Ph: 022-22873768
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
SPECIAL ARTICLE
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  june 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
45
Some of his points are—ﬁ rst, the Nagas have become disap-
pointed with the failure of the Indo–Naga talks (referring to 
ceaseﬁ re talks). Second, most Nagas have realised that they 
need to defend whatever little protections they have under the 
Constitution. This is where Article 371A becomes so important 
for them. Also, while the state government is composed of 
Naga politicians, most Nagas have lost faith in them and cyni-
cally think all of them are there only for the money and would 
align with the central government as long as they get money. 
Third, taxation has always been a contentious issue in Naga-
land. Taxation was responsible for the rise and sustenance of 
Naga nationalism, although other reasons were there too. Ura 
Uvie (loosely translated as “my home-it belongs to me”) en-
capsulated the basic idea behind their views on taxation. The 
new Indian law about attaching personal assets for failure to 
pay taxes would seem to give credence to this original fear of 
the Nagas. The Nagas have been vehemently opposing the 
forcible taxations imposed by the Naga political groups (NPGs) 
 although the NPGs claim that they are ﬁ ghting for the cause of 
the Naga people. The Nationalist Socialist Council of Naga-
land’s (Isak-Muivah) (NSCN[IM]) manifesto about nationalising 
private property, particularly land, only gives rise to more ap-
prehensions about their leadership. Land, particularly village 
land, gives identity to the Nagas, and without this, they would 
become non-entities (Chasie 1999, 2017 qtd in Kikhi 2017).
Parasitic Government, Parasitic Public?
This section examines the position that a parasitic government 
and a parasitic society has been institutionalised in Nagaland. 
This has resulted in a regime of systemic corruption where the 
state government seems to have no vision to generate any rev-
enue, relying on central grants that serve as pacifying pack-
ages to neutralise the Indo–Naga issue. These funds are ap-
propriated by the so-called new Naga elites (politicians, bu-
reaucrats and contractors in nexus with Naga underground 
groups’ leaders). Perhaps, the so-called Naga intelligentsia 
are failing to realise that this corrupt wealth or capital cannot 
be sustained while the common people are quiet about the 
corruption for now. 
Furthermore, Naga identity has to be critically analysed in 
the context of neo-liberalism. Today, the state is needed by the 
elites to accumulate and protect their wealth, which ultimate-
ly results in wealth inequality. The pertinent question has to 
be ampliﬁ ed: Can we trust the state? “The state” instead of 
 being the problem solver has itself become a problem, with an 
institutionalised corrupted system. In the absence of any 
mechanism to generate enough income for self-sustenance 
and self-sufﬁ ciency, what will happen when “our parasitic gov-
ernment” and “parasitic society” stop receiving the so-called 
“economic packages” from the central government?
There is no doubt that the movement for Naga identity start-
ed with good intentions but it has been reduced to a “bait,” in-
tensifying the parasitic system and encouraging nexus among 
the elites. The state has turned into an Althusserian oppressive 
apparatus and the public has also become weak, both seeming 
to feed on each other. The masses have become too dependent 
on the elites, or rather the elites have prepared the masses to 
act this way. Therefore, the need for the Nagas to realise the 
importance of self-reliance has to be channelised. The Nagas 
need to propose various areas that can be developed and im-
proved upon to achieve the goal of self-sustenance like 
indigenous handicrafts, pottery, forest resources and agro- or 
forest-based industries apart from other prospects (Morung 
Express 2017).
Question and Politics of Identity
This section attempts to understand how the conceptualisa-
tion of social identities helps us situate the Naga identity 
movement. In The Power of Identity, Manuel Castells (2010) 
argues that identity, as it refers to human beings in society, is 
“the process of construction of meaning on the basis of a cul-
tural attribute, or related set of cultural attributes that is or 
are given priority over other sources of meaning.” Thus, an 
individual or a collective actor can have a “plurality of identi-
ties.” It is well-known that identities can originate from the 
dominant institutions of a society. However, they become 
identities “only when and if social actors internalise them, 
and construct their meanings around this internalisation” 
(Castells 2010).
Since social relations are also relations of power, the social 
construction of identity always takes place in a context marked 
by power relationships. There are three forms and origins of 
identity formation. First, there is legitimate identity that is 
introduced by the dominant institutions (groups) of society to 
extend and rationalise their domination vis-à-vis social ac-
tors. Second, there is resistance identity generated by those 
actors who are in positions or conditions devalued and/or 
stigmatised by the logic of domination, thus building trench-
es of resistance and survival on the basis of principles differ-
ent from, or opposed to, those permeating the institutions of 
society. Third, there is project identity wherein social actors, 
on the basis of cultural materials available to them, build 
a new identity that redeﬁ nes their position in society and, 
by doing so, seek the transformation of social structures 
(Castells 2010).
Although these forms are analytically different, in reality, 
identities that start as resistance may induce projects, and may 
also, along the course of history, become dominant in the insti-
tutions of society, becoming legitimising identities to rational-
ise their domination. For instance, the Naga identity is one 
movement that started as a resistance identity, became a proj-
ect identity in the process and got transformed into a domi-
nant-legitimised identity. It can be interpreted as a legitimised 
identity, when the Indian government more recently recog-
nised it as a unique culture or identity.
However, one cannot solely depend on the state for resolv-
ing the inconsistencies and problems of power dynamics as the 
state itself is enmeshed in neo-liberal policies and ideology. 
Neo-liberal ideology works through the state promoting the 
market, rather than suppressing it. The state ensures that con-
tracts are enforced by instituting a legal system, prevents theft 
and crime in the form of the police, and establishes uniform 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
SPECIAL ARTICLE
june 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
46
systems of weights and measures, and currency. Without 
these arrangements, there would be no free market, no 
market forces and no resulting market society. Following 
from this logic, Neiphiu Rio (present Nagaland chief minister) 
or T R Zeliang (ex-chief minister of Nagaland) need the state 
to protect their wealth. State force defends a market society, 
capitalists and the political establishment in Nagaland equally 
in pursuance of power. 
The Naga Identity Movement
This section traces the history of the Naga struggle and argues 
that a fear of interference by plains people as well as the dan-
ger of infringement upon their “cultural autonomy” instigated 
the homeland struggle. It explores if the homeland movement 
is justiﬁ ed and lays emphasis on the need to introspect the 
very construction of the Naga society. It probes about the 
emerging challenges in the Naga society and the ways in 
which one could respond to those challenges. 
Pre-independence history of the Nagas: There are two broad 
phases of the pre-independence history of the Nagas. First, 
there was a protracted period during which endemic head-
hunting and warfare prevailed among different tribes in the 
Naga Hills area. The second phase began with the advent of 
the British who brought “local warfare, blood-feud and head-
hunting” to a gradual end. To ensure peace, the British slightly 
modiﬁ ed the existing pattern of village political system and 
tribal leadership, formalised the judicial functions of tribal 
leaders, avoided altering the customary basis of law, and im-
posed their own administrative system only slightly at the top 
(Das 1993: 24). The Naga Hills district, then a part of Assam, 
was a “scheduled” district, which meant that it was excluded 
from the general operation of laws enforced in the rest of 
India. Later, the Naga Hills district was declared an “excluded 
area” within the Assam Province by the Government of India 
Act of 1935. 
A major phenomenon which generated the Naga movement 
was the growing discontent among the Nagas on account of 
their inability to adjust themselves to the emerging socio-
political situations on the eve of India’s independence and the 
impending withdrawal of British administration. The fear of 
interference and exploitation by the “plains people” and an 
assumed danger of encroachment upon their “cultural auton-
omy” were linked to a fear of losing their land and forests. 
After the withdrawal of the British Raj, the Naga movement 
got intensiﬁ ed at the political level (Das 1982, 1993: 33 qtd in 
Kikhi 2017: 599).
The origin of the Naga movement can be traced to the for-
mation of the Naga Club in 1918, the ﬁ rst organisation of its 
kind that brought the various Naga tribes under its umbrella. 
When the Simon Commission visited Kohima, the Naga Club 
submitted a memorandum and requested that the Naga Hills 
should be kept outside the scheme of political reforms. It shows 
that a collective consciousness of Naga identity and solidarity 
had grown among the Naga tribespersons. The next landmark 
in the historical background of the Naga movement was the 
formation of the Naga Hills District Tribal Council in 1945 
whose title was changed to the Naga National Council (NNC) in 
1946. The NNC is said to have given a sense of ethnic and geo-
political unity to the Naga tribes. In 1946, the British govern-
ment planned to carve out a trust territory comprising Naga 
Hills, the then North-East Frontier Agency area and a part of 
what was then Burma (now Myanmar) as a “crown colony” 
under the control of London. Coupland proposed joint 
responsibility of the British and independent Indian and Bur-
mese governments for their territory after the transfer of 
power from the British. However, the NNC opposed this idea of 
extended British colonisation (Das 1982, 1993: 33 qtd in Kikhi 
2017: 599–600).
The goals and objectives of the Naga movement from 1947 
onwards had developed through a number of phases. From 
1947 to 1954, the Naga Hills remained comparatively peaceful. 
In 1948, when Phizo was elected president of the NNC, its goals 
and temper had changed in favour of “independence.” Thus, in 
opposition to the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution, the 1951 
elections, to constitute the district councils, and the general 
elections of 1952 were boycotted. However, it was in 1954 that 
violence became widespread. In March 1956, certain sections 
of the Nagas established a “Naga Federal Government” while a 
section of the liberal Nagas resigned from the NNC and sought 
to bring the conﬂ ict to an early end through peaceful negotia-
tions. In 1957, the Baptist Church came out with a condemna-
tion of the violence. As a result of these new developments, the 
All Tribes Naga People’s Convention was constituted.
The Naga struggle encompasses a unique history and an 
extensive track of ethnic–political mobilisation. The Nagas 
have argued that Naga nationalism is a political issue, and 
not an issue of economic egoism or internal economic colonial-
ism. The demand for the change of status is political, and 
therefore, a political framework is required to resolve it. Eth-
nic nationalist movements, such as Naga nationalism, persist 
 because their objective is to determine the future of ethnic 
communities, whether it be autonomy within states, or as a 
separate independent state. What is important is not the amount 
of power one has, but the limitation of power. Assertions or 
negations of this political power have motivated and sustained 
ethno-nationalist movements in many parts of the world.
Naga nationalism in post-independent India: The evolution 
of Naga nationalism after Indian independence has to be 
 understood by exploring how the Indian government has 
 managed the conﬂ ict (Lotha 2009, 2013). Thus, Nagas have 
been seen as a threat to Indian nation-building. India claims 
it inherited the Naga Hills from the British and considers the 
Naga conﬂ ict as a law and order problem led by misguided 
persons. From the beginning, India has approached the Naga 
issue with a colonial mindset towards minorities and ethnic 
groups and has perpetuated the conﬂ ict. From the nine-point 
agreement signed between the Government of India and the 
NNC on 9 June 1947 to the constitutional amendments, cease-
ﬁ re political talks and the latest framework agreements, the 
 Indian government has tried to manage the Indo–Naga conﬂ ict. 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
SPECIAL ARTICLE
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  june 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
47
But, the question is: Has India been able to manage it correctly 
and successfully (Kikhi 2010: 149, 2017: 601–02)?
Both the Nagas and the central government have failed to 
understand or rather, have underestimated each other. On the 
one hand, bureaucrats in Delhi failed to appreciate the wishes 
and stand of Naga pioneers for separate regulation on the basis 
of its unique history and identity. On the other hand, Nagas 
misjudged Delhi’s interpretation of its demands, whereby India 
sees Nagas as a colonial legacy and the Naga territory as an inte-
gral part of the Indian state. Before the Nagas realised what was 
happening, the struggle gave birth to the state of Nagaland, 
which was not agreeable to a majority of the Nagas. The state was 
Delhi’s response to the challenge and crisis the Nagas presented 
to the newly established Indian republic. B K Nehru, speaking 
from his experiences as the governor of Nagaland, said that 
the state was hastily conceived. Today, both Delhi and the Nagas 
need the state equally, pending a settlement (Iralu 2009: 22–23).
Ceaseﬁ re and its impact on the Naga struggle: Ceaseﬁ re 
and ceaseﬁ re talks have brought peace in the state, and yet, 
ceaseﬁ re and extortion are intertwined today, discouraging 
private investment and development. Extortion has become a 
serious issue affecting the economy of every household. State-
ments like “they” are extorting from the “outsiders” or “non-
locals” are not rational. No businessperson (irrespective of be-
ing an outsider or insider) is foolish to run their business at a 
loss but rather will have to revise the price of every commodity 
in their shop to make up the extorted money besides making 
proﬁ t. The question is: Who is actually paying for the extorted 
money? It is understood that ceaseﬁ re has “ground rules,” it 
legitimises the cessation of hostilities and gives dialogue a 
chance. But, does it serve any purpose and whose purpose 
does it serve? When the ground rules are not maintained, it 
appears like the Indian government is trying to buy more time 
or apply delay tactics to neutralise the issue or expecting it to 
die naturally. On the other hand, the underground factional 
groups should not use ceaseﬁ re as a means to openly extort 
money (Kikhi 2009: 358–59). 
In the midst of the ceaseﬁ re, factions of the Naga struggle 
have been criticising one another through newspapers, carry-
ing out mutual assassinations and ceaselessly collecting taxes, 
each group sequestered in their hate and their respective 
camps. The rest of the Nagas continue to wait and watch help-
lessly, not knowing how to transform these conﬂ icts into hon-
est conversations and dialogues to evolve the solutions they 
need. Because non-combatants are used to the traditional se-
curities of their tribes, they are not transparent in their inter-
actions with one another. Reaching out to one another across 
divides of distrust, uncertainties and ill-will to create the envi-
sioned Naga identity is ineffective. Given that “the broad-
based political package” offered by the Government of India, 
declared by then Union Home Secretary G K Pillai, seems to 
have vanished, we need solutions as soon as possible. 
Framework accord and new situations: The latest “Naga 
Peace Accord” or the popular Framework Accord signed on 
3 August 2015 after 80 rounds of talk between the Indian gov-
ernment and the NSCN(IM) has been stated as the beginning of 
a new future and an end to the Indo–Naga problem. This pact 
gives hope of a solution giving Naga identity a legitimacy, 
whereby both the Indian government and the group appreciate 
and respect each other’s positions and difﬁ culties. While some 
scholars have stressed that there is an urgent need to end the 
Naga problem, some scholars have raised questions on whether 
this pact has the best possible offer for both India and the Nagas. 
The pact has not made it0 clear whether the agreement 
meets the demand of the NSCN(IM) for integration of all Naga-
inhabited areas in the North East stretching across Manipur, 
Arunachal Pradesh and Assam. This claim has counterclaims, 
which eventually evoke deeply resentful responses from other 
ethnic groups in the North East. For that matter, Tarun Gogoi 
and Okram Ibobi Singh banked on the Assam and Manipur 
territorial integrity issue respectively as the main factor to gar-
ner support for their three consecutive chief ministerial terms. 
A group of Naga scholars are of the opinion that “integration” 
or “no-integration” should be decided by the people them-
selves through a plebiscite as in the case of Scotland voting 
for departure from the United Kingdom. In the words of 
V S Atem, there is no “Greater Nagaland or Smaller Naga-
land.” He maintained that the Nagas were divided by “arbi-
trary orders” of the British government and subsequently, the 
Indian government, and called for returning the land belong-
ing to the Nagas. On the opposition raised by the chief minis-
ters of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur on the inte-
gration of all Naga inhabited areas, the NSCN(IM) leader said 
the Nagas’ problem could not be solved through “Manipuri 
interest or Assamese interest.” Atem added, “We are not try-
ing to grab any Manipur land or Assamese land,” nor was 
NSCN(IM) infringing on the life of the Assamese or Manipuris 
or any other people, but “we (the Nagas) were ﬁ ghting for our 
right” (Nagaland Post 2015).
There are other scholars who have argued that the journey 
of the Naga struggle is a difﬁ cult one and mention that sus-
taining the movement itself is a success. The Nagas, while 
striving for a uniﬁ ed Naga identity, had witnessed several 
shifts and changing phases. The procedure has spilled over to 
many other problems or, at the least, has intensiﬁ ed some ex-
isting issues. The Naga Hoho, the apex civil society body of the 
Nagas, and its constituent Forum for Naga Reconciliation 
(FNR) have been unsuccessful in bringing about a reconcilia-
tion among the several factions of Naga militias divided along 
the tribal lines or factional loyalties that override ethnicity. 
Much more than man-made lines on maps, the major chal-
lenge towards building a cohesive political unit is a fragment-
ed identity engaged in internecine strife with bloodied conse-
quences, which is in opposition to the larger Naga identity.
There are several models, both old and new, that could 
serve as examples on a comparable scale for political solidarity 
amongst geographically neighbouring people with similar but 
subtly varied cultures. Most of these cultures are also in a dis-
advantageous juxtaposition due to external impositions of 
state administrations and territorial demarcations, with serious 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
SPECIAL ARTICLE
june 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
48
implications for the traditional homeland set-up of these ethnic 
groups. There are instances of afﬁ liated ethnic groups and 
tribal clans seeking common ground for collective political goals. 
For instance, the six nations in North America, also called the 
Iroquois, was a confederacy of different Native American eth-
nic groups. Today this powerful super group has uniﬁ ed inde-
pendent governance, and live both in the United States (US) 
and Canada. Like the Iroquois, the Nagas can form a common 
supranational or transnational structure that provides a common 
platform to their way of life and traditions (Goswami 2014).
In contrast to the success of the Iroquois was the Great Sioux 
Nation made up of several ethnic groups whose traditional 
homeland once spanned across thousands of square kilome-
tres in the Great Plains of the US and Canada. The Sioux, being 
formidable warriors but divided along loyalties, lost a major 
chunk of their territories to the invading US military, including 
the Black Hills, which have been sacred grounds since ancient 
times for the Sioux and remains lost to them even today. Cur-
rently, they live in scattered reservations on the land of their 
ancestors. In 2007, a group of Sioux travelled to Washington 
DC to reassert their independence and sovereignty. More 
 recently, the multinational struggle of the Kurds in West Asia 
(the Kurds of Kurdistan) is currently a nation in the making in 
a transborder conﬂ ict zone contiguous with Armenia, Iran, 
Iraq, Syria and Turkey. Bhutan, which has several ethnic 
groups with one dominant group controlled by the absolute 
monarchy, made a successful transition from monarchy to a 
constitutional democracy (Goswami 2014). Some of these 
models with further insightful research can be referred to as 
exemplary models for the Indo–Naga solution to bring perma-
nent peace to this region of the North East.
What Do Nagas Negotiate For?
The contents of the “framework pact” or what has to be negoti-
ated needs to be thoroughly and critically examined. If the 
framework solution is bargained or negotiated with just 
special economic packages, then the Nagaland government’s 
experience has not been good. For that matter, the closure of 
Dimapur Sugar Mill and Tuli Paper Mill in Nagaland clearly 
reﬂ ects that Nagas have failed to sustain or manage the small 
number of small-scale industries they had. More generally, 
one can question how many governmental projects could be 
sustained at present, and whether the state in Nagaland can 
adopt its own development models. 
It is in this context that it is necessary to critically question 
the ﬂ ow of money in the form of special economic packages 
earmarked for the state from the successive central govern-
ments. The state continues to decelerate despite several spe-
cial economic packages, such as the `365 crore Peace Bonus 
Package by the National Democratic Alliance-I government. 
These huge funds from the federal exchequer were pocketed 
by local elites who have emerged as the alternative competing 
elites. As stated earlier, this abundance of money injected into 
the economy without due accountability has created a regime 
of corruption that has institutionalised a corrupted system, en-
gendering a parasitic government and a parasitic society 
(Kikhi 2009: 356). 
The special economic packages have also affected the agri-
cultural economy. Today, the Nagas have incorporated a cul-
ture of dependency in their everyday lives. The Nagas are told 
that their forefathers were very hard-working and that every 
family was self-sufﬁ cient. But are they self-reliant today? 
Many full-time farmers of the day are not cultivating enough 
to feed themselves for the entire year, let alone generating a 
surplus. Can the Nagas survive if food supplies coming into 
the state from the other states are clogged? Even if it survives, 
how long can it sustain? We cannot trust the state when it 
 itself has become a problem. Given the situation, the common 
public and present youth seem to be frustrated with multiple 
issues that have manifested at several occasions. Nagaland 
urgently needs a vision for the public, especially the educated 
unemployed youth, and their future. 
References 
Altvater, E (2008): “Post-neoliberalism or Post-cap-
italism?” Alternatives International, 22 Octo-
ber, viewed on 15 October 2015, http://www.
alterinter.org/spip.php?article2629.
Bonefeld, W (2017): The Strong State and the Free 
Economy, London: Rowman & Littleﬁ eld Inter-
national.
Castells, M (2010): The Power of Identity, Oxford: 
Wiley Blackwell.
Chasie, C (1999): The Naga Imbroglio (A Personal 
Perspective), Kohima: Standard Printers and 
Publishers.
 — (2017): “Naga Society Lies Wounded Again,” 
Nagaland Post, 5 February.
Das, N K (1982): “The Naga Movement,” Tribal 
Movements in India (Vol 1), K S Singh (ed), New 
Delhi: Manohar Publications, pp 39–52.
 — (1993): Kinship Politics and Law in Naga Socie-
ty, Calcutta: Anthropological Survey of India, 
Department of Culture, Ministry of Human Re-
source Development, Government of India.
Goswami, N (2014): “Naga Identity: Ideals, Parallels, 
and Reality,” Hindu Centre for Politics and 
Public Policy, 16 June, viewed on 21 May 
2020, http://www.thehinducentre.com/the-
arena/current-issues/article6114531.ece?css=
print.
Iralu, N (2009): “The Kingdom of God and Our 
Crisis,” Angami Society at the Beginning of the 
21st Century, Kedilezo Kikhi, A D’Souza, 
V Hibo (eds), New Delhi: Akansha Publishing 
House, pp 21–26. 
Kikhi, K (2009): “What Ails the North East? Chal-
lenges and Responses,” Sociological Bulletin, 
Vol 58, No 3, pp 346–66.
 — (2010): “Ceaseﬁ re and iIts Impact in Nagaland: 
A Critical Appraisal,” Ethno-social Mobility in 
North East India, Gautam Kumar Bera and 
K Jose SVD (eds), Delhi: Abhijeet Publications, 
pp 145–56. 
 — (2012): “Contemporary Political Discourse on 
Naga Identity and Nationalism: A Sociological 
Analysis,” Man and Society, Vol 9, Winter 2012, 
ICSSR-NERC Journal, pp 74–91.
 — (2017): “Politics in Nagaland: From Military to 
Electoral Democracy,” State Politics in India, 
Himanshu Roy et al (eds), New Delhi: Primus 
Books, pp 598–624. 
Lotha, A (2009): “Indo-Naga Conﬂ ict: Packaging a 
Win-Win Solution,” Morung Express, 27 October. 
 — (2013): The Raging Mithun: Challenges of Naga 
Nationalism, Kohima: Barkweaver.
Martinez, E and A Garcia (1997): “What Is Neolib-
eralism?” CORPWATCH, 1 January, National 
Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, 
viewed on 14 December 2018, https://corp-
watch.org/article/what-neoliberalism. 
Morung Express (2017): “Nagas Should Realise the 
Importance of Self-reliance,” 23 July. 
Nagaland Post (2015): “Talks on For Methodology 
of Integration, Says Atem,” 15 August.
Pakem, B (ed) (1993): Regionalism in India, New 
Delhi: Har-Anand Publications.
Phelwe, D (2016): “Neoliberal Hegemony,” The 
Handbook of Neoliberalism, S Springer, K Birch 
and J MacLeavy (eds), New York and London: 
Routledge, pp 61–72. 
Ritzer, G (2013): Sociological Theory, New Delhi: 
McGraw Hill Education (India).
Turner, J H (2011): The Structure of Sociological 
Theory, Jaipur: Rawat Publications. 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
 SPECIAL ARTICLE
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
49
PM-KISAN and the Adoption of 
Modern Agricultural Technologies
Deepak Varshney, Pramod Kumar Joshi, Devesh Roy, Anjani Kumar
This study is a part of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research–
International Food Policy Research Institute project “Assessing the 
Impact of Krishi Vigyan Kendra in India.” It has also been published as 
an IFPRI Discussion Paper in January 2020. 
We acknowledge ICAR for the ﬁ nancial support and the Consortium on 
International Agricultural Research Centers’ research programme on 
policies, Institutions, and Markets (PIM) led by IFPRI.
Deepak Varshney (deepak@econdse.org) is a research collaborator, 
Pramod Kumar Joshi (pkj.in@outlook.com) is a former director, 
Devesh Roy (d.roy@cgiar.org) is a senior research fellow, and 
Anjani Kumar (a.kumar@cgiar.org) is a research fellow at the 
International Food Policy Research Institute, New Delhi.
The Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme aims 
to provide income support to farmers for easing their 
liquidity needs to facilitate timely access to inputs. This 
study, based on 1,406 farmers of Uttar Pradesh, uses a 
binary choice model to examine the targeting accuracy 
and correlates of the spending pattern of farmers. Triple 
difference with matching estimators is used to identify 
the differential impact of the scheme on the Krishi 
Vigyan Kendra beneficiaries. Results show that the 
scheme reached one-third farmers in the first three 
months of its implementation, and has significantly 
helped those who are relatively more dependent on 
agriculture and have poor access to credit. Moreover, the 
scheme has significantly stimulated the Krishi Vigyan 
Kendra's impact on the adoption of modern cultivars. 
A
 doption of modern technologies is one of the most
 promising strategies to increase farm incomes. Among 
 the constraints in technology adoption, the most promi-
nent ones are the lack of information and credit (Varshney et al 
2019). Banerjee et al (2017) also show that access to formal 
credit signiﬁ cantly increased the investment in existing small 
businesses. In India, more than half of the farming households 
do not have access to formal credit. In such a situation, the 
introduction of a cash transfer scheme, namely the Pradhan 
Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) in December 2018, to 
ease liquidity constraints of farmers for procuring inputs, is 
quite salient. While the scheme is pitched as a general cash 
transfer scheme for the farmers, its role in the adoption of 
modern technologies remains an important research question 
that this paper addresses. 
In general, the effects of cash transfers are well analysed on 
outcomes such as household consumption, educational attain-
ment, and health (Gertler 2004; Fiszbein and Schady 2009; 
Adato and Bassett 2009). However, the impacts of cash transfers 
on the agriculture sector are comparatively less studied, including, 
importantly, its impact on technology adoption (examples 
include Sadoulet et al 2001; Gertler et al 2012; Haushofer and 
Shapiro 2016; Tirivayi et al 2016). In this context, PM-Kisan 
presents a natural experiment to assess the effects of cash 
transfers. For any intervention to provide long-term impacts, 
there must be some investments in productive activity. In this 
context, Gertler et al (2012) and Handa et al (2018) show that a 
small monthly cash transfers may lead to increased consumption, 
even after beneﬁ ciaries left the programme. Haushofer and 
Shapiro (2016) show that a large unconditional transfer to 
poor households may increase future earnings by encouraging 
investments in livestock. Sadoulet et al (2001) show the multi-
plier effect of cash transfers.1 All these studies point towards a 
productive investment in the short run leading to sustained 
long-term impacts. How does PM-KISAN fare in this context? 
Conceptually, cash transfer can encourage farmers to spend 
the amount in the productive activities for several reasons.2 
First, it may help in easing incumbent credit and liquidity con-
straint in purchasing agricultural inputs, extremely pertinent 
in India where more than 50% farmers rely on informal credit 
and one-ﬁ fth farmers purchase inputs on credit.3 Adesina 
(1996) ﬁ nds that access to credit encourages fertiliser use. 
Second, cash transfer increases the net income of farmers and 
thus, in turn, may enhance farmers’ risks-taking capacity, leading 
to undertaking riskier but comparatively productive investments. 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
SPECIAL ARTICLE
JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
50
Yet, cash transfer beneﬁ ciaries’ investment in the productive 
activities may be limited in developing countries (Maluccio 
2010). We attempt to capture this issue by examining hetero-
geneity in impact estimates. 
Speciﬁ cally, we ask whether farmers who have more infor-
mation on investments related to productive activities respond 
differentially to direct cash transfer (DCT). It is likely that DCT 
would increase investment of comparatively informed farmers 
ﬁ rst. Studying heterogeneity in impact estimates of DCT in 
agriculture sector contributes to a small but growing literature 
on the heterogeneous impact of DCT (for example, see Galiani 
and McEwan 2013). 
There are two main objectives of the study. The ﬁ rst is to 
analyse the implementation of PM-KISAN by examining its 
coverage and its targeting accuracy, also examining the spending 
patterns of the beneﬁ ciary farmers to assess the alignment of 
PM-KISAN with its objectives. Second, it examines the PM-KISAN’s 
role in stimulating the adoption of modern cultivars for paddy 
cultivation among comparatively informed farmers deﬁ ned in 
this study as Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) beneﬁ ciaries.4 Our 
analysis is based on the primary survey of 1,406 farmers in 
Uttar Pradesh (UP), India. The binary choice model is used to 
study the targeting accuracy and correlates of spending. The 
differential impact of the scheme is examined by the application 
of triple difference with matching (TDM) procedure. 
Our implementation and coverage result reveals: (i) the 
scheme reached one-third farmers in the ﬁ rst three months of 
its implementation itself; (ii) there seems to be no evidence of 
selection bias in choosing the PM-KISAN beneﬁ ciaries based on 
attributes like caste and land size; and (iii) the spending patterns 
show that farmers more dependent on agriculture, and with 
relatively poorer access to credit are more likely to spend the 
DCT in the agriculture sector. Finally, the paper provides 
evidence that the scheme has augmented the KVK’s impact 
in the adoption of modern cultivars. Note that the outcome 
assessed pertains simply to the choice of seed type, and not 
the ﬁ nal outcomes, that is, agricultural productivity and farmer’s 
incomes, as the scheme is only recently implemented.5 
This paper makes the following contributions. First, it is the 
incipient study to evaluate the implementation of the PM-KISAN 
scheme, and its association with spending patterns. Second, it 
captures the differential impact of cash transfers. Most impor-
tantly, it studies the impacts of cash transfers on the adoption 
of technologies that has received scant attention in the literature 
(Gertler 2004; Fiszbein and Schady 2009; Adato and Bassett 
2009). Hence, the paper contributes to the literature that explores 
the mechanisms for income enhancement, consequently to 
cash transfers (Sadoulet et al 2001; Gertler et al 2012).
PM-KISAN and its beneﬁ ciaries: PM-KISAN, a central government-
funded scheme, was launched in December 2018 to facilitate 
farmers in purchasing various agricultural inputs. The scheme 
started from February 2019. It provided to each eligible farmer’s 
family `6,000 per annum in three instalments of `2,000 each.6 
Initially, farmers with less than 2 hectares of land were eligible.7 
Subsequently, from June 2019, it was extended to all farmers, 
that is, an estimated 140 million farmers. Money is transferred 
directly to beneﬁ ciary’s bank account.8 According to govern-
ment data, the scheme reached 50 million farmers by 15 Sep-
tember 2019.9 Highest number of beneﬁ ciaries comes from UP 
(28%) followed by Maharashtra (10%), Andhra Pradesh (9%), 
and Gujarat (7%). 
KVK and its beneﬁ ciaries: The KVK was launched by the Indian 
Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) in 1974 in Puducherry 
district with the main goal to provide institutional support to 
agriculture and allied sectors with location-speciﬁ c technologies 
through assessment, reﬁ nement, and demonstrations. KVKs are 
now available in every district of the country.10 KVKs are ﬁ nanced 
fully by the ICAR,11 with the mandate to (i) conduct “on-farm 
testing” (OFT) for the assessment of agricultural technologies 
across different farming systems, (ii) carry out front line demon-
strations (FLDs) to demonstrate the implementation of frontier 
technologies, (iii) increase the capacity development of farmers 
and extension workers, and (iv) work as a knowledge and re-
source centre for the agricultural economy of the district. 
The total budget of KVKs in India was only `686 crore in 
2016–17. Gulati et al (2018) showed that India spends 0.7% of 
agriculture gross domestic product (GDP) on research, education, 
extension and training. Out of this, 0.54% goes for agriculture 
research and education, and a meagre 0.16% goes to extension 
and trainings. Varshney et al (2019) show that KVKs have huge 
local spillovers, and the KVK beneﬁ ciaries are more informed 
about frontier technologies that results in greater adoption of 
the technologies. 
We conducted a primary survey in UP. With more than 200 
million people, each farmer accounts for less than one hectare 
land. The major crops grown in the state are wheat (41%), 
paddy (24%), sugarcane (9%), pearl millet (4%), and maize (3%) 
(Varshney et al 2019). Wheat in UP is sown mainly in November 
in the rabi season, and the scheme was launched in December 
2018 where the majority of cultivar choice decisions were 
already taken prior to the introduction of the scheme. In paddy, 
sowing starts in June and July, that is, after the introduction of 
the scheme. Therefore, we consider paddy for analysis.
Our sample comes from three agri-export zones (AEZs) of UP, 
namely the western plain, mid-western plain, and north-eastern 
plain. The survey was carried out between May to July 2019 by 
the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), New 
Delhi, and supported by ICAR. We include nine districts covering 
10 KVKs of UP. Five districts were selected from the north-eastern 
plain, three from the western plain, and one from the mid-
western plain. We selected villages randomly by stratifying 
them into two categories: the KVK and the non-KVK villages, 
with the former being where any type of intervention, such as 
FLDs or OFTs or training programmes were conducted by the 
KVKs. To select households, the complete household listing 
was compiled for each selected village. 
The four quintiles based on total cultivable land were formed. 
From each quintile, ﬁ ve households were randomly selected. The 
total sample of size 1,406 includes wheat, paddy (723) and 
sugarcane farmers. Our household module includes household, 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
SPECIAL ARTICLE
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
51
Table 2: Sample Profile of Farmers, Uttar Pradesh
  
Statistics
 
Mean 
Std Deviation Minimum Maximum
Male (Yes=1) 
0.94 
0.24 
0 
1
Age (Year) 
42 
12 
18 
78
Age square (Year) 
1,921 
1,065 
324 
6,084
Education (Year) 
6.92 
4.74 
0 
22
Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe (Yes=1) 
0.17 
0.37 
0 
1
Hindu (Yes=1) 
0.91 
0.29 
0 
1
Cultivation (Yes=1) 
0.70 
0.46 
0 
1
Other agriculture activity (Yes=1) 
0.20 
0.40 
0 
1
Non-farm self-employment/salaried (Yes=1) 
0.08 
0.27 
0 
1
Other includes remittances/pension (Yes=1) 
0.02 
0.13 
0 
1
Below poverty line (Yes=1) 
0.39 
0.49 
0 
1
Land owned (hectare) 
0.51 
0.62 
0 
8
Household size (number) 
5.63 
2.40 
1 
25
Members involved in farming (number) 
2.32 
1.29 
1 
15
Kisan credit card (Yes=1) 
0.43 
0.50 
0 
1
Soil health card (Yes=1) 
0.14 
0.34 
0 
1
Crop insurance (Yes=1) 
0.40 
0.49 
0 
1
Number of observations 
1,406 
 
 
Survey was carried out between May and July 2019.
Source: ICAR-IFPRI Survey, 2019.
demographic, area, and production of crops for the reference year 
2017–18, and the household’s social mapping in the village.12
(i) PM-KISAN: It captures the farmers’ access to PM-KISAN scheme 
and how they spend the beneﬁ ts received under the scheme. Our 
survey can capture the disbursal of the beneﬁ ts for ﬁ rst three 
months of implementation due to parliamentary elections in UP.
(ii) KVK: It captures the access of farmers to FLDs, OFTs, and 
training programmes conducted by KVKs about frontier agri-
culture technologies. Our survey considers only those villages 
where KVKs have conducted intervention in 2016–17 and 2017–18, 
but not for 2015–16 or before.
(iii) Adoption: It includes a recall-based information on the 
adoption of paddy cultivars from 2014–15 to 2019–20. 
Table 1 summarises the timeline of the KVK and the PM-KISAN 
interventions across the KVK and the non-KVK villages.13 The 
KVK villages had interventions since 2016–17 till 2019–20. Note 
that we have assigned the villages as KVK’s intervention 
villages in 2019-20 where KVK visited in either 2016–17 or 
2017–18 or 2018–19. It is done because once farmers get beneﬁ ted 
from the KVKs, they are likely to get regular updates on new 
technologies from them. In case of the non-KVK villages, there 
was no intervention in either period. Regarding PM-KISAN, in 
both the sets of villages, PM-KISAN is implemented only in 
2018–19 and 2019–20. The timeline of events forms the basis of 
identiﬁ cation strategy that we discuss below in methodology.
Table 2 presents the sample proﬁ le of all farmers (including 
wheat, paddy and sugar cane cultivators). Overall, three-fourths 
farmers are dependent on agriculture, and the majority of 
them are small and marginal landholders who have limited 
access to formal credit. 
Descriptive Results 
Figure 1 presents the percentage of farmers who received the 
beneﬁ ts from the PM-KISAN scheme till 30 April 2019, that is 
within three months of its implementation.14 Our result shows 
that 30% farmers received the beneﬁ ts.15 Before the imple-
mentation, the concerns were raised about the selection bias 
in choosing the PM-KISAN beneﬁ ciaries. We run a probit model 
to test for the factors associated with selection.16 
The PM-KISAN beneﬁ ciaries: Table 3 presents the results, 
“without” and “with” district ﬁ xed effects, respectively. The 
Table 1: Summary of Timeline of Event in Sample Villages
Year 
Intervention: KVK 
Intervention: PM-KISAN
 
KVK Villages 
Non-KVK Villages 
KVK Villages 
Non-KVK Villages
2014–15 
No 
No 
No 
No
2015–16 
No 
No 
No 
No
2016–17 
Yes 
No 
No 
No
2017–18 
Yes 
No 
No 
No
2018–19 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
Yes
2019–20 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
Yes
PM-KISAN is implemented in February 2019. The year 2014–15 starts from July 2014 and 
ends in June 2015. 
Source: ICAR-IFPRI Survey, 2019.
29.3
60
40
Figure 1: Share of Farmers Benefiting from PM-KISAN 
(%)
Data includes only those beneficiaries who received PM-KISAN benefits in the first three 
months of its implementation. 
Source: ICAR-IFPRI Survey, 2019.
 
Beneficiary 
Received one instalment 
Received two instalments
 
Out of total surveyed farmers 
 Out of total beneficiaries
70  -
60  -
50  -
40  -
30  -
20  -
10  -
0  -
Table 3: Estimating Probit Coefficients for the PM-KISAN Beneficiaries 
 
Beneficiary=1,  
Beneficiary=1, 
 
and 0 Otherwise 
and 0 Otherwise
 
(1) 
(2)
Male (Yes=1) 
-0.385*** (0.144) 
-0.388*** (0.144)
Age (Year) 
-0.003 (0.020) 
-0.010 (0.020)
Age square (Year) 
0.000 (0.000) 
0.000 (0.000)
Education (Year) 
0.010 (0.009) 
0.007 (0.009)
Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe (Yes=1) 
0.099 (0.101) 
-0.001 (0.107)
Hindu (Yes=1) 
-0.112 (0.131) 
-0.122 (0.135)
Income source (others=1), base category 
 
 Income source (cultivation=1) 
-0.101 (0.291) 
-0.093 (0.288)
 Income source (other agriculture activity=1) 
0.119 (0.295) 
0.144 (0.295)
 Income source (non-farm 
 self-employment/salaried=1) 
0.435 (0.306) 
0.483 (0.306)
 Below poverty line (Yes=1) 
-0.134* (0.081) 
-0.072 (0.091)
 Land owned (hectare) 
-0.158 (0.142) 
-0.217 (0.150)
 Household size (number) 
-0.032* (0.019) 
-0.029 (0.020)
 Members involved in farming (number) 
0.025 (0.033) 
0.027 (0.034)
 Kisan credit card (Yes=1) 
0.223 (0.163) 
0.201 (0.159)
 Soil health card (Yes=1) 
-0.023 (0.116) 
-0.026 (0.121)
 Crop insurance (Yes=1) 
0.141 (0.159) 
0.157 (0.157)
 Distance from nearest branch of bank (km) 
0.018 (0.012) 
0.016 (0.013)
 Distance from nearest branch of post office (km) 
-0.039** (0.016) 
-0.047*** (0.018)
Constant 
-0.001 
0.084
 
(0.561) 
(0.573)
District fixed effects 
No 
Yes
Number of observations 
1328 
1328
Left hand side takes value 1 if farmer is PM-KISAN beneficiary and 0 otherwise. 
The analysis sample for this regression is those farmers who own less than 2 hectare of land. 
Standard errors in parentheses. * p < 0.1, ** p < 0.05, *** p < 0.01.
Source: ICAR-IFPRI Survey, 2019.
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
SPECIAL ARTICLE
JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
52
coefﬁ cients of social, economic, and agricultural characteristics 
are all insigniﬁ cant, with an exception of male dummy.17 Further, 
the variables (such as post ofﬁ ce) that captures the farmer’s 
access to formal system are correlated with the likelihood of 
receiving the PM-KISAN beneﬁ ts. Further, the result shows that 
93% of the non-beneﬁ ciary farmers have already applied to 
the scheme, indicating towards a general awareness among 
the farmers regarding the scheme.18 
Figure 1 presents the distribution of farmers who received 
either one or two instalments, with 60% receiving one instal-
ment and 40% receiving two. The spending pattern of the 
PM-KISAN beneﬁ ciaries, disaggregated by instalments, is 
presented in Figure 2. Our results show that 52% of those who 
received ﬁ rst instalment spent it on agriculture and 26% on 
consumption, 7% on education and health, and the remaining 
16% on other incidental expenses (such as festivals, marriage, 
etc). The second instalment recipient spent 39% on consump-
tion, followed by agriculture (23%) and education and medical 
(19%). Given a signiﬁ cant spending in the agriculture sector, 
we explore if this easing of liquidity constraints has implica-
tions for the adoption of modern technologies.19 
Land size, agriculture dependency, access to banks, and 
access to KVKs are correlated with the spending of the DCT on 
agriculture. PM-KISAN has likely eased credit and liquidity 
constraints for farmers. Also, farmers with better access to 
KVKs are more likely to spend on agriculture. Figure 3 presents 
the timing of instalments. Farmers receiving the PM-KISAN 
beneﬁ ts in agricultural peak season are more likely to spend 
on agriculture; in the off season, they are more likely to spend 
on consumption.
 
The KVK beneﬁ ciaries: Figure 4 estimates the KVK beneﬁ -
ciaries (Varshney et al 2019). Survey data reveals that 36% 
farmers beneﬁ ted from KVKs through FLDs (27%) or OFTs 
(10%) and training programmes (26%). 
Figure 5 presents the adoption of paddy cultivars for the 
period between 2015–16 and 2019–20.20, 21 We deﬁ ne the 
modern cultivars as those that were released post 2005. Our 
result reveals that the adoption of modern paddy cultivars has 
gone up from 53% to 57%. We also present the cultivar wise 
adoption patterns for the period 2015–16 and 2019–20. By 
cultivars, for modern cultivars like Arize-6444, Pusa-1121 and 
Gorakhnath-509 adoption rates have signiﬁ cantly increased 
from 5.1% to 7.5%, 8% to 11.3%, and 1.5% to 6.1%, respectively 
from 2015–16 to 2019–20. Whereas old cultivars like BPT-5204, or 
Sarju-52 have seen a signiﬁ cant decline their adoption rates from 
18.3% to 12%, and 13% to 8.9%, respectively (Figure 6, p 53). 
Empirical Strategy
PM-KISAN does not impose any conditionality on the farmers for 
receiving and or spending the beneﬁ ts. However, the intended 
objective of the scheme is to augment farmers’ income, and to 
ease credit and liquidity constraints for the farmers to invest in 
productive activities such as procuring agricultural inputs.
The existing literature on adoption of technology clearly 
points out that the availability of credit helps in the adoption 
Figure 2: Share of Farmers Spending PM-KISAN Benefits, by Expenditure Types   
 
(%)
52
23
26
39
7
20
16
19
First installment
Second installment
Spending patterns of PM-KISAN beneficiaries, % farmers
Agriculture
Consumption
Education/Medical
Other expenditure
60 -
50 -
40 -
30 -
20 -
10 -
0 -
Other expenditure includes incidental expenses such as festival, marriages, etc.
Source: ICAR-IFPRI Survey, 2019.
PM-KISAN provides total financial benefits for each eligible farmer’s family of ` 6,000 per 
annum in three instalments of `2,000 each. Third instalment is not disbursed by the time 
of primary survey.
Source: ICAR-IFPRI Survey, 2019.
80
0
14
22
6
78
First installment
Second installment
Figure 3: Timing of PM-KISAN installments, % farmers 
Feb-19
Mar-19
Apr-19
Figure 3: Share of Farmers Receiving PM-KISAN Instalments, by Months  (%)
 
First instalment 
Second instalment
 February 2019
 March 2019
 April 2019
100
80
60
40
20
0
27
10
26
36
0
10
20
30
40
FLD
OFT
Training
All beneficiaries
KVK beneficiaries, % farmers
Figure 4: Share of Farmers Benefiting from KVK Activities  
(%)
KVK Beneficiaries includes both direct and indirect beneficiaries. Indirect beneficiaries includes those 
by  their own self-curiosity gets benefit in terms of knowledge of frontier technologies through KVKs 
and those who are benefited from KVK beneficiaries being in their social network. KVKs carry out 
FLDs to demonstrate the implementation of frontier technologies.  OFT for the assessment of 
agricultural technologies across different farming systems, and also increase the capacity 
development of farmers and extension workers to create awareness about frontier technologies.
Figure 5: Share of Farmers Adopting Various Paddy Cultivars  
(%)
47 
53 
43 
57 
0 
10 
20 
30 
40 
50 
60 
Old 
Modern 
Kharif 2015 
Kharif 2019 
Modern cultivars are those which were released post-2005 and old cultivars are those 
which were release in 2005 or before.
Source: ICAR-IFPRI Survey, 2019.
 
First instalment 
Second instalment
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
SPECIAL ARTICLE
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
53
of modern technologies (Feder et al 1985; ICAR-IFPRI 2019). 
The cash transfer may also increase the net income of 
farmers and, hence, raise risk-taking ability of the farmers. 
Zimmermann (2015) tests that an increase in income conse-
quent to workfare programmes may shift farmers’ cropping 
choices towards riskier but higher return crops. Finally, cash 
transfer may also help in getting access to crop insurance as 
a risk-coping mechanism, which, in turn, has implications 
for adoption. 
To capture the impact of cash transfers, the outcome indicators 
can be classiﬁ ed into three: ﬁ rst, the primary outcome that 
captures changes in overall agricultural spending/investments; 
second, the intermediate outcome such as changes in investment 
in speciﬁ c inputs such as seed, fertilisers, pesticides, labour, 
irrigation; and third, the ﬁ nal outcomes such as changes in 
production, yield and income. However, in this study, we are 
not able to capture the ﬁ nal outcomes due to data constraints. 
Identiﬁ cation strategy: Our identiﬁ cation strategy exploits the 
availability of non-beneﬁ ciaries of PM-KISAN, non-universal 
coverage of KVKs, and the recall-based panel on paddy cultivars 
for pre- and post-intervention years (2015–16 and 2019–20). 
Although the PM-KISAN scheme is a universal scheme, it 
reached 30% farmers till April 2019 that enables the counter-
factual group. At the same time, the decision on the type of 
cultivar (modern or old) by the farmers is taken subsequently 
in the month of May and June of 2019. Therefore, the study 
captures the immediate impact of PM-KISAN. In case of the 
Table 4: Estimating Probit Coefficients for Farmers Who Spent Benefits 
Received under the PM-KISAN Scheme on Agriculture Sector
 
Benefits Spent on  
Benefits Spent on
 
Agriculture=1, 
Agriculture=1,
  
and 0 Otherwise 
 and 0 Otherwise
 
(1) 
(2)
Male (Yes=1) 
0.096 (0.266) 
0.117 (0.293)
Age (Year) 
-0.004 (0.042) 
-0.029 (0.044)
Age square (Year) 
-0.000 (0.000) 
0.000 (0.000)
Education (Year) 
0.026 (0.017) 
0.013 (0.018)
Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe (Yes=1) 
0.314* (0.184) 
0.072 (0.209)
Hindu (Yes=1) 
-0.505** (0.232) 
-0.600*** (0.231)
Income source (others=1), base category 
 
 Income source (cultivation=1) 
0.013 (0.630) 
-0.030 (0.664)
 Income source (other agriculture activity=1) 
-0.232 (0.638) 
-0.251 (0.677)
 Income source (non-farm 
 self-employment/salaried=1) 
-0.151 (0.652) 
-0.300 (0.694)
 Below poverty line (Yes=1) 
-0.190 (0.171) 
-0.106 (0.188)
 Land owned (hectare) 
0.833*** (0.304) 
0.815** (0.320)
 Household size (#) 
-0.032 (0.044) 
-0.037 (0.044)
 Members involved in farming (#) 
0.430*** (0.083) 
0.526*** (0.097)
 Kisan credit card (Yes=1) 
-0.082 (0.282) 
-0.161 (0.299)
 Soil health card (Yes=1) 
0.134 (0.219) 
0.088 (0.236)
 Crop insurance (Yes=1) 
-0.426 (0.283) 
-0.500* (0.297)
Time of receiving benefits (February 2019=1), base category 
 
 Time of receiving benefits (March 2019=1) 
0.328 (0.233) 
0.245 (0.232)
 Time of receiving benefits (April 2019=1) 
0.215 (0.296) 
0.055 (0.298)
 Distance from nearest input/ 
 output market (km) 
0.066** (0.026) 
0.043 (0.034)
 Distance from nearest branch of bank (km) 
-0.068*** (0.025) 
-0.099*** (0.031)
 Distance from nearest branch of 
 post office (km) 
-0.027 (0.032) 
-0.031 (0.038)
 Distance from nearest KVK (km) 
-0.005* (0.003) 
-0.008** (0.004)
 Constant 
0.065 (1.215) 
0.774 (1.281)
 District fixed effects 
No 
Yes
 Number of observations 
373 
373
The analysis sample for this regression includes only those farmers who received the benefits 
of PM-KISAN. Left hand side takes value 1 if farmer spends PM-KISAN income support in the 
agriculture sector and 0 otherwise. Standard errors in parentheses. 
* p < 0.1, ** p < 0.05, *** p < 0.01.
Figure 6: Share of Farmers Adopting Various Paddy Cultivars, by Year  
(%)
5.1 
18.3 
13.6 
8.0 
13 
1.5 
0.6 
7.5 
12.0 
12.5 
11.3 
8.9 
6.1 
1.5 
0 
4 
8 
12 
16 
20 
ARIZE-6444, Modern 
PB-1509, Modern 
SARJU-52, Old 
SWARNA SUB-1, Modern 
2015 
2019 
 
ARIZE-6444,  BPT-5204, 
PB-1509,  PUSA-1121, SARJU-52, Gorakhnath 
Swarna sub-1,
 
Modern 
Old 
Modern 
Old 
Old 
-509, Modern 
Modern
ARIZE-6444 is a hybrid cultivar.
Source: ICAR-IFPRI Survey, 2019.
Table 5: Unmatched and matched Characteristic of Paddy Farmers for 
Those Who Received KVK Benefits vs Those Who Not
Covariates 
Unmatched 
Matched
 
Mean 
 
 
 
KVK  Bene- 
Non- 
p>| t | KVK Bene- 
Non- 
p>|t|
 
ficiary beneficiary 
 
ficiary beneficiary 
Male (Yes=1) 
0.97 
0.94 
0.16 
0.96 
0.98 
0.18
Age (Year) 
43 
43 
0.53 
43 
42 
0.36
Age square (Year) 
2022 
1967 
0.57 
2028 
1927 
0.33
Education (Year) 
8.03 
7.13 
0.04 
7.88 
9.39 
0.00
Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe (Yes=1) 0.08 
0.14 
0.04 
0.09 
0.09 
0.92
Hindu (Yes=1) 
0.91 
0.88 
0.28 
0.91 
0.70 
0.00
Cultivation (Yes=1) 
0.80 
0.77 
0.43 
0.80 
0.84 
0.27
Below poverty line (Yes=1) 
0.26 
0.35 
0.04 
0.28 
0.25 
0.44
Land owned (hectare) 
0.88 
0.55 
0.00 
0.88 
1.12 
0.01
Household size (number) 
6.07 
5.79 
0.21 
6.13 
7.07 
0.01
Members involved in farming (number) 2.52 
2.45 
0.52 
2.55 
2.75 
0.18
Kisan credit card (Yes=1) 
0.66 
0.47 
0.00 
0.65 
0.77 
0.01
Soil health card (Yes=1) 
0.28 
0.09 
0.00 
0.24 
0.20 
0.38
Crop insurance (Yes=1) 
0.64 
0.44 
0.00 
0.63 
0.74 
0.02
Soil colour (Brown=1) 
0.22 
0.17 
0.18 
0.21 
0.17 
0.30
Soil  colour (Yellow=1) 
0.04 
0.08 
0.09 
0.05 
0.02 
0.11
Soil fertility (Low=1) 
0.01 
0.04 
0.07 
0.01 
0.01 
0.69
Soil fertility (Medium=1) 
0.93 
0.92 
0.80 
0.93 
0.96 
0.16
Soil type (Sandy loam=1) 
0.22 
0.23 
0.77 
0.21 
0.18 
0.40
Soil type (Loam=1) 
0.65 
0.51 
0.00 
0.65 
0.75 
0.04
Soil type (Clay=1) 
0.11 
0.23 
0.00 
0.12 
0.07 
0.11
Irrigation source (diesel tube well=1) 
0.41 
0.61 
0.00 
0.43 
0.33 
0.02
Irrigation source (canal/pond=1) 
0.04 
0.06 
0.36 
0.05 
0.04 
0.64
Distance from the input market (km) 
5.54 
5.10 
0.14 
5.32 
5.76 
0.12
Distance from the output market (km) 
5.38 
4.61 
0.02 
5.15 
5.60 
0.15
Distance from the agriculture 
department (km) 
9.77 
8.14 
0.00 
8.31 
10.03 
0.00
Distance from nearest bank 
branch (km) 
4.68 
7.00 
0.00 
4.90 
5.00 
0.73
Distance from KVK (km) 
19.79 
37.60 
0.00 
19.40 
26.74 
0.00
Number of observations 
230 
575 
 
214 
266 
Analysis sample includes KVK-beneficiaries from the KVK villages and non-beneficiaries 
from non-KVK villages. Summary statistics for matched KVK beneficiaries vs those who not 
are estimated using matching weights in the common support region. 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
SPECIAL ARTICLE
JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
54
KVK, its non-universal coverage enables the availability of the 
counterfactual. With pre- and post-intervention information 
on outcome variable along with the availability of the counter-
factuals for both the interventions—PM-KISAN and KVK—the 
identiﬁ cation of differential impact of these is possible in a tri-
ple difference (TD) framework. 
The TD approach identiﬁ es the differential impact if it satisﬁ es 
the parallel trends assumption. If confounding factors are time 
variant, then parallel trends assumption may not be satisﬁ ed. 
One of the most prominent reasons is that the two groups of 
farmers are very different from each other in terms of charac-
teristics (social, economic, and agricultural) and may grow 
with differential time trends. Table 5 (p 53) conﬁ rms that the 
unmatched characteristics of treatment and control group re-
veals that they are different in terms of plot characteristics 
such as soil fertility, irrigation source, and the location of insti-
tutions such as output market, agriculture extension depart-
ment, bank, and KVK. 
To address this concern, we employ TD with matching (TDM) 
where we match each treated farmer with a weighted combi-
nation of control farmers such that the predicted probability 
of receiving the beneﬁ ts is similar in both (Heckman et al 
1997). We then compare the outcomes for treatment with 
the weighted average of outcomes across matched control 
groups.22 This ensures comparing in terms of the likelihood 
of being treated and makes it more likely that the identifying 
assumption holds. Table 5 reveals that matching the KVK 
beneﬁ ciary with the non-beneﬁ ciary farmer results in insig-
niﬁ cant difference in social, economic, agricultural, plot and 
institutional characteristics.
Implementing the matching procedure essentially involves 
constructing the matching weights. This is done in the following 
steps. First, we deﬁ ne a common support region by dropping 
those beneﬁ ciary farmers whose propensity score is higher than 
the maximum or less than the minimum of non-beneﬁ ciary 
farmers, and vice versa. Then, we derive farmer-level matching 
weights using a kernel matching procedure (for more detail, 
see Caliendo and Kopeinig 2008). 
We estimate the following triple difference speciﬁ cation.
Y୧ୢ୩୲ = ɀ଴ + ɀଵPMK୧ୢ୩୲ + ɀଶTIME୲ + ɀଷKVKB୧ୢ୩୲ + 
+ɀସ(PMK ୧ୢ୩୲כ KVKB୧ୢ୩୲) + ɀହ(KVKB୧ୢ୩୲כ TIME ୲)  
... (1)
+ɀ଺(PMK ୧ୢ୩୲כ TIME୲) + ɀ଻(PMK ୧ୢ୩୲כ TIME୲כ KVKB୧ୢ୩୲) 
+{Ʉ୩} + ɂ୧ୢ୩୲
where i stands for individual farmer, d for district, k for agro-
ecological region, and t for year (either 2019–20 or 2015–16). 
Y is the adoption of modern paddy cultivar, and takes value 1 if 
farmer adopts modern cultivar and 0 otherwise. PMK is a 
dummy variable for being the PM-KISAN beneﬁ ciary, KVKB is a 
dummy variable for being KVK beneﬁ ciary and 0 otherwise, 
and TIME is a dummy variable for 2019–20. {ƞk } represents 
agro-ecological region ﬁ xed effects, where it takes value 1 for 
eastern region and 0 otherwise. ε is the error term. 
Estimating the speciﬁ cation (1) with matching weights in 
the common support region makes γ7 the triple interaction 
term or the TDM estimator. The coefﬁ cient γ7 can be interpreted 
as the differential impact of PM-KISAN on the KVK vis-à-vis the 
non-KVK beneﬁ ciaries. The other coefﬁ cient γ6 is interpreted 
as the impact of PM-KISAN on non-KVK beneﬁ ciaries. And γ5 as 
the impact of KVK on non-PM-KISAN beneﬁ ciaries. 
To test for identifying assumption, we test the assumption of 
parallel trends for the matched sample by looking at data from 
pre-PM-KISAN and pre-KVK years (2014–15 and 2015–16) and 
verifying that it holds during this period.
Econometric Results
Table 6 presents differential impact of PM-KISAN and KVK on 
the adoption of modern paddy cultivar. The KVK beneﬁ ciaries 
saw 36 percentage point higher adoption of modern cultivar as 
compared to the non-KVK beneﬁ ciaries. The result is consistent 
with the adoption literature that talks about the complimen-
tary roles of credit and information in the adoption of modern 
technologies (Feder et al 1985). In the context of conditional 
cash transfer (PROCAMPO) in Mexico, Sadoulet et al (2001) ﬁ nd 
that technical assistance to farmers raised the multiplier effect of 
conditional cash transfer through returns in productive assets.
We may also interpret the coefﬁ cient γ7  as the impact of KVK 
on the PM-KISAN vis-à-vis the non-PM-KISAN beneﬁ ciaries. The 
Table 6: Differential Impact of PM-KISAN and KVK Beneficiaries on the 
Adoption of Modern Paddy Cultivar, TDM Estimates
 
Main Regressions (2019–20 and 2015–16)
 
(1) 
(2) 
(3)
PM-KISAN, γ1 
-0.064(0.069) 
0.188*(0.104) 
0.190*(0.100)
KVKB, γ2 
0.003(0.049) 
-0.095(0.094) 
-0.071(0.090)
TIME,  γ3 
-0.028(0.049) -0.280**(0.124) 
-0.280**(0.123)
KVKB*PM-KISAN, γ4 
0.007(0.105) 
-0.223*(0.134) 
-0.217*(0.130)
KVKB*TIME, γ5 
0.080(0.070) 
0.321**(0.135) 
0.321**(0.134)
PM-KISAN*TIME, γ6 
-0.057(0.097) 
-0.290(0.179) 
-0.290(0.183)
PM-KISAN*KVKB*TIME, γ7 
0.104(0.147) 
0.359*(0.214) 
0.359*(0.217)
Constant, γ0 
0.564***(0.034) 0.663***(0.086) 0.682***(0.088)
Region fixed effects 
No 
No 
Yes
Matching 
No 
Yes 
Yes
Number of observation 
1,052 
960 
960
 
Pre-intervention trends (2015-16 and 2014-15)
 
(4) 
(5) 
(6)
PM-KISAN,  γ1 
-0.059(0.068) 
0.058(0.111) 
0.065(0.098)
KVKB,  γ2 
-0.017(0.048) 
-0.138*(0.081) 
-0.057(0.074)
TIME,  γ3 
-0.066(0.048) 
-0.072(0.112) 
-0.072(0.107)
KVKB*PM-KISAN,  γ4 
0.073(0.102) 
-0.034(0.138) 
-0.015(0.126)
KVKB*TIME,  γ5 
0.020(0.069) 
0.043(0.124) 
0.043(0.118)
PM-KISAN*TIME,  γ6 
-0.005(0.097) 
0.130(0.152) 
0.130(0.137)
PM-KISAN*KVKB*TIME, γ7 -0.066(0.147) 
-0.189(0.192) 
-0.189(0.177)
Constant,  γ0 
0.630***(0.033) 0.735***(0.072) 0.801***(0.069)
Region fixed effects 
No 
No 
Yes
Matching 
No 
Yes 
Yes
Number of observation 
1,052 
960 
960
Left hand side takes value 1 if paddy farmer adopt modern cultivar and 0 otherwise. 
PM-KISAN takes value 1 if farmer is PM-KISAN beneficiary and 0 otherwise. KVKB takes 
value 1 if farmer is KVK beneficiary and 0 otherwise. TIME takes value 1 for 2019–20 and 0 
for 2015–16. Region fixed effects dummy takes value 1 for eastern region and 0 otherwise. 
Triple interaction (PM-KISAN*KVKB*TIME) measures the differential impact of PM-KISAN 
and KVK. Column 1 presents the regression without matching. Column 2 and 3 presents 
the regression incorporating matching weights in the common support region. Upper 
panel presents the main regression that compares treatment and control over the period 
2015–16 and 2019–20. Lower panel presents the pre-intervention trends and compare the 
treatment and control over the period 2014–15 and 2015–16. All regressions are performed 
using specification 1 as described in the text. Matching is performed using covariates listed 
in Table 5. Regression Standard errors in parentheses. * p < 0.1, ** p < 0.05, *** p < 0.01.
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
SPECIAL ARTICLE
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
55
result reveals that the PM-KISAN beneﬁ ciaries saw a 36 percent-
age point higher adoption of modern technologies when 
accessing KVKs. It reveals that the presence of PM-KISAN has 
magniﬁ cation effects on KVK. 
As noted earlier, the coverage of the KVKs is not universal. 
Our descriptive results reveal that only one-third of the farmers 
in UP have access to the KVKs. At the all-India level, Kumar et al 
(2019) note that there are less than 10% farmers having direct 
access to KVKs. Therefore, it is important to look at the impact 
on the non-KVK beneﬁ ciaries, which is given by the coefﬁ cient 
γ6. Our results show an insigniﬁ cant impact of PM-KISAN on 
non-KVK beneﬁ ciaries. Clearly, emphasising the role of both 
credit and information for the adoption of modern technologies. 
Thus, the magnifying impact of PM-KISAN can be realised by 
expanding the scope of public sector programmes such as 
KVKs and Million Farmer Schools (MFS) that improve farmers’ 
awareness about frontier technologies.23
We also present the coefﬁ cient in Equation (1) which is 
interpreted as the impact of KVK on the non-PM-KISAN bene-
ﬁ ciaries. There is a positive and signiﬁ cant (32 percentage 
point) impact of the KVK on the non-PM-KISAN beneﬁ ciaries for 
the adoption of paddy cultivars. Recall that 70% farmers are 
non-PM-KISAN beneﬁ ciaries in our sample. Positive impact of 
KVKs is also documented in a study conducted for all farmers 
for modern wheat cultivars in the same state (Varshney et al 
2019). Internationally, Kondylis et al (2017) also show the posi-
tive impact of lab-to-farm extension design (similar to KVKs) 
for the adoption of modern technologies. 
To sum up, the result reveals that PM-KISAN is signiﬁ cantly 
stimulating the impact of KVKs for the adoption of modern culti-
vars by easing both cash and liquidity constraints for the farmers. 
Lessons learnt from here suggest that the agricultural extension 
system (for example, KVKs) along with PM-KISAN can serve as a 
signiﬁ cant pathway to encourage farmers for making productive 
investments. Gertler et al (2012) also show that rural Mexican 
households saved part of their cash transfers in productive agri-
cultural assets such as livestocks and in turn saw an increase in 
agricultural income (10%). Conditional cash transfer (PROCAMPO) 
in Mexico, once gets complemented with the technical assistance, 
can result into the multiplier of 2.5 (Sadoulet et al 2001). 
Robustness checks: As tests of robustness, we test for 
(i) identiﬁ cation assumption, (ii) choice of deﬁ nition of out-
comes, (iii) choice of matching algorithms, and (iv) treatment 
deﬁ nition of KVK. For identiﬁ cation assumption, we test for the 
parallel trends for the treatment and control group. We assume 
2014–15 as the baseline year and 2015–16 as the end-line year. 
Both these years experienced no intervention either related to 
the KVK or for PM-KISAN. Therefore, we run speciﬁ cation (1) to test 
for the parallel trend assumption for the differential impact of 
PM-KISAN and KVK. Table 6, column 6 shows that the coefﬁ cient 
γ5, γ6 and γ7 are insigniﬁ cant. Hence, identifying assumption of 
no systematic trend in the treatment and control group holds.
Regarding the choice of deﬁ nition of outcomes, we also 
consider the variety age,24 and result broadly shows a similar 
pattern of result in terms of sign of the coefﬁ cient.
In terms of different matching algorithms, the results are 
robust to the nearest neighbour and radius matching methods.25 
With regard to treatment deﬁ nition for the KVKs, we also 
deﬁ ne the treatment as those farmers who reside in the KVK 
villages (instead of KVK beneﬁ ciaries) and those who are not 
resident in the KVK village as the control group. The result 
reveals lower magnitudes compared to when we deﬁ ne the 
beneﬁ ciaries as the treatment group.26
Conclusions 
This paper had two major objectives. The ﬁ rst is to examine 
the implementation of the PM-KISAN scheme, and second is to 
explore spending patterns of beneﬁ ciaries. Next, the study 
examines the role of PM-KISAN in stimulating the impact of the 
KVK for the adoption of modern cultivars. 
We ﬁ nd that the scheme has reached 30% farmers within three 
months of its implementation. The paper also tests for selection 
in choosing the PM-KISAN beneﬁ ciaries. Our results show no 
evidence of selection in terms of social, economic, and agricultural 
characteristics of farmer. Therefore, the concerns raised about 
the PM-KISAN scheme and its implementation is well addressed in 
UP, to begin with. Banking infrastructure created through 
Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) (Chowhan and Pande 
2014), and the timely preparation of farmers’ database by the 
state government, played a key role in the appropriate implemen-
tation of PM-KISAN. However, it is still early days and there is a 
need of more evaluations across states with complete rollout. 
Our ﬁ ndings on utility of income support suggest that the 
spending patterns of farmers are well aligned with the objectives 
of the scheme. Evidence suggests that more than 50% farmers 
who received the beneﬁ ts in agricultural peak season have spent 
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
SPECIAL ARTICLE
JUNE 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
56
Notes
 1 The study estimated the multiplier of 2.5 for 
the conditional cash transfers of Mexico.
 2 See section 5, for more detail.
 3 Estimated using ICAR-IFPRI Survey, 2019.
 4 KVK farmers have access to frontier techno-
logies and about its implementation procedure. 
 5 It is done to capture the immediate impact of 
scheme the choice of seeds in the subsequent 
season after the implementation of the scheme. 
See conceptual framework in methodology 
section, for more detail on set of outcomes.
 6 Family deﬁ nes husband, wife and minors.
 7 Institutional landholders, any member of family 
was a holder of the constitutional post, former 
or present minister or member of Parliament, 
etc, are excluded for receiving beneﬁ ts.
 8 It is about 0.6% of the total GDP of the country.
 9 Data is accessed from 17 September 2019 from 
the PM-KISAN portal.
 10 The total number of KVKs in India is 703. It is 
also important to note that the larger districts 
have more than one KVKs. Gorakhpur district 
in UP has two KVKs.
 11 KVKs are attached to state agricultural univer-
sities, ICAR institutes, related government depart-
ments, and non-governmental organisations 
(NGOs) working in the agriculture sector.
 12 Our household module gathers information on 
the relationships (friend, neighbour, and so on) 
for each farmer with the remaining 19 surveyed 
farmers of the same village. This approach 
provides a complete social mapping of each 
surveyed farmer among themselves. This forms 
the basis to capture the spillovers of information 
ﬂ ows among farmers through social network 
channel, and the identiﬁ cation of network 
beneﬁ ciaries of KVKs beneﬁ ts.
 13 In the table, “Yes” indicates there was at least 
some beneﬁ ciaries in the village. “No” indicates 
there was no beneﬁ ciary in the village.
 14 The scheme starts the implementation from 
15 February 2019 in UP.
 15 Our results are comparable with the government 
disbursement data that also shows similar 
pattern of results.
 16 In the probit speciﬁ cation, left hand side variable 
takes value 1 if farmer received the PM-KISAN 
beneﬁ ts and 0 otherwise. Right hand side vari-
able includes social, economic, and agricultural 
characteristics of farmers. We also include village 
level variables in terms of distance that cap-
tures the access to banks and other govern-
ment institutions.
 17 Although, the male dummy is statistically 
signiﬁ cant but its economic signiﬁ cance is low 
as the share of the female head is only 5%. 
 18 According to government data, the scheme has 
reached to more than two-thirds beneﬁ ciaries 
till 15 September 2019.
 19 Left hand side variable takes value 1 for those 
who spend in the agriculture sector and 0 
otherwise. Right hand side variable includes 
social, economic, and agricultural characteristics 
of farmers, timing of receiving beneﬁ ts, etc. 
See Table 4 for the complete list of variables. 
We run this regression only for ﬁ rst instal-
ments but not for the second instalment recipi-
ents because of lack of sample size.
 20 The year 2015–16 refers to kharif 2015.
 21 The choice of year 2015–16 for comparison is 
taken as there was no intervention in any of the 
villages in terms of either KVKs or PM-KISAN.
 22 We have conducted matching based on KVK 
beneﬁ ciaries versus non-beneﬁ ciaries. 
 23 MFS is a UP government intervention for provide 
training about frontier technologies to one 
million farmers. 
 24 The results are not presented for lack of space 
and may be available on request.
 25 Same as note 24.
 26 Same as note 24.
References
Adato, M and L Bassett (2009): “Social Protection 
To Support Vulnerable Children and Families: 
The Potential of Cash Transfers to Protect 
Education, Health and Nutrition,” AIDS Care, 
Vol 21, Sup 1, pp 60–75.
Adesina, A A (1996): “Factors Affecting the Adoption 
of Fertilizers by Rice Farmers in Cote d’Ivoire,” 
Nutrient Cycling in Agroecosystems, Vol 46, 
No 1, pp 29–39.
Banerjee, A V, E Breza, E Duﬂ o and C Kinnan (2017): 
“Do Credit Constraints Limit Entrepreneurship? 
Heterogeneity in the Returns to Microﬁ nance,” 
Heterogeneity in the Returns to Microﬁ nance 
(September 1, 2017), Buffett Institute Global 
Poverty Research Lab Working Article No 17–104.
Caliendo, M and S Kopeinig (2008): “Some Practical 
Guidance for the Implementation of Propensity 
Score Matching,” Journal of Eeconomic Surveys, 
Vol 22, No 1, pp 31–72.
Chowhan, S S and J C Pande (2014): “Pradhan 
Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana: A Giant Leap towards 
Financial Inclusion,” International Journal of 
Research in Management and Business Studies, 
Vol 1, No 4, pp 19–22.
Feder, G, R E Just and D Zilberman (1985): Adop-
tion of Agricultural Innovations in Developing 
Countries: A Survey,” Economic Development 
and Cultural Change, Vol 33, No 2, pp 255–98.
Fiszbein, A and N R Schady (2009): Conditional 
Cash Transfers: Reducing Present and Future 
Poverty, The World Bank.
Galiani, S and P J McEwan (2013): “The Heteroge-
neous Impact of Conditional Cash Transfers,” 
Journal of Public Economics, Vol 103, pp 85–96.
Gertler, P (2004): “Do Conditional Cash Transfers 
Improve 
Child 
Health? 
Evidence 
from 
PROGRESA’s Control Randomized Experiment,” 
American Economic Review, Vol 94, No 2, 
pp 336–41.
Gertler, P J, S W Martinez and M Rubio-Codina 
(2012): “Investing Cash Transfers to Raise 
Long-term Living Standards,” American Economic 
Journal: Applied Economics, Vol 4, No 1, pp 164–92.
Gulati, A, P Sharma, A Samantra and P Terway 
(2018): “Agriculture Extension System in India: 
Review of Current Status, Trends and the Way 
Forward,” New Delhi: Indian Council for Re-
search on International Economic Relations.
Handa, S, L Natali, D Seidenfeld, G Tembo, B Davis 
and Zambia Cash Transfer Evaluation Study 
Team (2018): “Can Unconditional Cash Trans-
fers Raise Long-Term Living Standards? Evi-
dence from Zambia,” Journal of Development 
Economics, Vol 133, pp 42–65.
Haushofer, J and J Shapiro (2016): “The Short-term 
Impact of Unconditional Cash Transfers to the 
Poor: Experimental Evidence from Kenya,” 
Quarterly Journal of Economics, Vol 131, No 4, 
pp 1973–2042.
Heckman, J, H Ichimura and P E Todd (1997): 
“Matching as an Econometric Evaluation 
Estimator: Evidence from Evaluating a Job 
Training Programme,” Review of Economic 
Studies, Vol 64, No 4, pp 604–54.
Kondylis, F, V Mueller and S Zhu (2017): “Seeing Is 
Believing? Evidence from an Extension Network 
Experiment,” Journal of Development Economics, 
Vol 125, pp 1–20.
Kumar, A, A K Singh, S Saroj, M Madhavan and 
P K Joshi (2019): The Impact of India’s Farm 
Science Centers (Krishi Vigyan Kendras) on 
Farm Households’ Economic Welfare: Evidence 
from a National Farmers Survey, Vol 1832, 
IFPRI, Washington, DC.
Maluccio, J A (2010): “The Impact of Conditional 
Cash Transfers on Consumption and Investment 
in Nicaragua,”  Journal of Development Studies, 
Vol 46, No 1, pp 14–38.
Sadoulet, E, A De Janvry and B Davis (2001): “Cash 
Transfer Programs with Income Multipliers: 
PROCAMPO in Mexico,” World Development, 
Vol 29, No 6, pp 1043–56.
Tirivayi, N, M Knowles and B Davis (2016): “The 
Interaction Between Social Protection and 
Agriculture: A Review of Evidence,” Global 
Food Security, Vol 10, pp 52–62.
Varshney, D, P K Joshi and S K Dubey (2019): 
“Direct and Spillover Effects of Agricultural 
Advisory Services: Evidence from Uttar Pradesh, 
India,” Vol 1850, IFPRI, Washington, DC.
Zimmermann, L (2015): “Why Guarantee Employ-
ment? Evidence from a Large Indian Public 
Works Program,” Working Article, Georgia, 
US: University of Georgia.
their money in the agriculture sector, and more than 60% 
farmers who received the money in the off-season spent the 
money on consumption, education and medical purposes. 
Moreover, the result shows that spending patterns of farmers 
in the agriculture sector are correlated with their dependency 
on the agricultural sector, farm size, and to the poor access to 
credit facilities. 
Our study establishes the evidence that PM-KISAN has 
signiﬁ cantly stimulated the KVK’s impact for the adoption of 
modern paddy cultivars. In particular, the study shows that 
PM-KISAN has increased adoption of modern cultivars for KVK 
beneﬁ ciaries by 36 percentage points as compared to the 
non-KVK beneﬁ ciaries. Lessons learnt from this research suggest 
that the agricultural extension system (for example, the KVKs) 
along with PM-KISAN can serve to encourage farmers for mak-
ing productive investments in agriculture. 
If farmers invest some part of its cash transfer in productive 
investments, it can have implications for permanent increase 
in income in longer term (Sadoulet et al 2001). From a policy 
perspective, the study establishes the evidence on the signiﬁ -
cant role of PM-KISAN in stimulating the adoption of modern 
technologies through KVKs, which in turn provides a pathway 
to encourage farmers for making productive investments in 
the agriculture sector. Therefore, PM-KISAN shows a potential 
to break the cycle of intergenerational poverty and low income 
of farmers through investment in modern technology.
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
 CURRENT STATISTICS
EPW Research Foundation
Economic & Political Weekly 
EPW  june 6, 2020 vol lV no 23
57
Wholesale Price Index
The annual inﬂ ation rate of WPI decreased to 1.7% during April–March 2019–
20 from 4.3% registered during the corresponding period of the previous 
year 2018–19. The index for primary articles declined by (-)0.8% in April 
2020 against 6.6% reported a year ago and 3.7% a month ago. The food index 
decreased by 2.6% compared to 6.4% recorded a year ago and 4.9% a month 
ago. The index for fuel and power fell by (-)10.1% against 3.8% registered a 
year ago. The WPI index for all commodities was not computed because of the 
non-availability of the index for manufactured products.
Index of Industrial Production
The year-on-year IIP growth rate declined to -16.7% in March 2020 from 2.7% 
reported a year ago. The index of eight core industries declined by (-)38.1% 
in April 2020 against 5.2% registered a year ago. Growth in the production of 
coal, reﬁ nery products, crude oil and natural gas dropped to -15.5%, -24.2%, 
-6.4% and -19.9%, respectively, from their respective growth rates of 3.2%, 
4.3%, -6.7% and -0.8%. Production of fertilisers, steel, cement and electricity 
generation declined by (-)4.5%, (-)83.9%, (-)86.0% and (-)22.8%, respectively, 
against their respective growth rates of (-)4.4%, 13.3%, 2.3% and 5.9%. 
Consumer Price Index
The CPI-inﬂ ation rate increased to 5.9% in March 2020 from 2.9% registered a 
year ago, but was lower than 6.6% reported in February 2020. The consumer 
food price index rose by 8.8% against 0.3% reported a year ago, but was lower 
than 10.8% a month ago. The CPI-rural inﬂ ation rate stood at 6.1% and the 
urban inﬂ ation rate at 5.7% compared to 1.8% and 4.1%, recorded a year ago. As 
per Labour Bureau data, the CPI-inﬂ ation rate of agricultural labourers (CPI–AL) 
increased to 8.8% in April 2020 from 5.0% registered a year ago while that of 
industrial workers (CPI–IW) decreased to 5.4% from 8.3% reported a year ago.
Foreign Trade
The trade deﬁ cit stood at $6.8 billion (bn) in April 2020 compared to $15.3 
bn registered a year ago. Exports declined by (-)60.3% to $10.4 bn from 
$26.1 bn recorded a year ago. Imports decreased by (-)58.7% to $17.1 bn 
from $41.1 bn. Oil imports were lower by (-)59.0% to $4.7 bn and non-oil 
imports by (-)58.5% to $12.5 bn from $11.4 bn and $30.0 bn, respectively. 
During the ﬁ nancial year 2019–20, cumulative exports declined by (-)4.8% to 
$314.3 bn and imports by (-)9.1% to $467.2 bn from $330.1 bn and $514.1 bn, 
respectively, recorded in 2018–19.
Merchandise Trade April 2020
 
April 2020 
Over Month 
Over Year 
April–March
 
($ bn) 
(%) 
(%) 
(2019–20 over 2018–19) (%)
Exports 
10.4 
-51.6 
-60.3 
-4.8
Imports 
17.1 
-45.1 
-58.6 
-9.1
Trade deficit  
6.8 
-30.7 
-55.9 
-16.9
Data is provisional. Source: Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
* Data is provisional; Base: 2011–12 = 100. # Manufactured product group index for April 2020 is not available due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
* March 2020 is provisional; Source: National Statistical Office (NSO); Base: 2012=100.
Oil refers to crude petroleum and petroleum products, while Non-Oil refers to all other commodities.
Comprehensive current economic statistics with regular weekly updates are available at: http://www.epwrf.in/currentstat.aspx.
 
 
   
* March 2020 are quick estimates; Base: 2011–12=100.
Inflation in CPI and Its Components March 2020* (%)
 
 
Latest Month  Over  Over  Financial Year (Avgs)
 
 
 
Weights 
Index 
Month Year 
2018–19 
2019–20
CPI combined 
100 
148.7 
-0.3 
5.9 
3.4 
4.8
Consumer food 
39.1 147.8 
-1.3 8.8 
0.1 
6.7
Miscellaneous  
28.3 143.8 
0.1 
4.4 
5.8 
4.4
CPI: Occupation-wise#
Industrial workers (2001=100)  
 
329.0 
0.9 
5.4 
5.4 
7.5
Agricultural labourers (1986–87=100) 
 1014.0 
0.7 
8.8 
2.1 
8.0
* Provisional; #April 2020; Source: NSO (rural & urban); Labour Bureau (IW and AL). 
Trends in WPI and Its Components April 2020* (%)
 
 
 
Financial Year (Averages)
 
 
 
Weights 
Over Month 
Over Year 
2017–18 
2018–19 
2019–20
All commodities  
100 
- 
- 
2.9 
4.3 
1.7
Primary articles 
22.6 
-0.9 
-0.8 
1.4 
2.7 
6.9
 
Food articles 
15.3 
0.7 
2.6 
2.1 
0.3 
8.4
Fuel and power 
13.2 
-8.2 
-10.1 
8.2 
11.5 
-1.7
Manufactured products 
64.2 
- 
- 
2.7 
3.7 
0.3
*Data is provisional; Base: 2011–12=100; Source: Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
Growth in Eight Core Industries April 2020* (%)
 
Weights 
Over Month 
Over Year 
Financial Year (Avgs)
 
 
 
 
2018–19 
2019–20
General index # 
100 
-10.0 
-16.7 
3.8 
-0.7
Infrastructure industries 
40.27@ 
-39.3 
-38.1 
4.4 
0.4
Coal 
10.3 
-50.6 
-15.5 
7.4 
-0.4
Crude oil 
9.0 
-5.6 
-6.4 
-4.1 
-5.9
Natural gas 
6.9 
-11.2 
-19.9 
0.8 
-5.6
Petroleum refinery products 
28.0 
-30.3 
-24.2 
3.1 
0.2
Fertilisers 
2.6 
-13.5 
-4.5 
0.3 
2.7
Steel 
17.9 
-80.6 
-83.9 
5.1 
3.4
Cement 
5.4 
-83.6 
-86.0 
13.3 
-0.9
Electricity 
19.9 
-14.4 
-22.8 
5.2 
1.0
(Base: 2011–12=100); # March 2020; *Data is provisional; @ The revised eight core industries have a combined weight of 
40.27% in the IIP. 
Source: NSO and Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
Movement of WPI Sub-indices January 2018–April 2020
Movement of CPI Inflation January 2018–March 2020
Movement of Components of IIP Growth January 2018–March 2020
Trade  Deficits January 2018–April 2020
Year-on-Year in %
-0.8%
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
M Apr*
D Jan F
N
O
S
A
J
J
M
A
M
D Jan F
N
O
S
A
J
J
M
A
M
Jan F
2018
                                                             2019                                                                                            2020
-10.1%
Fuel and Power
Primary Articles
Manufactured 
Products #
Year-on-Year in %
0
2
4
6
8
F Mar*
D Jan
N
O
S
A
J
J
M
A
M
F
D Jan
N
O
S
A
J
J
M
A
M
F
Jan
            0
02
2                                                                                                9
01
2                                                                                                8
01
2
5.7%
5.9%
6.1%
CPI (Combined)
Rural
Urban
 2018                                                                                                 2019                                                                                                  2020
Year-on-Year in %
-24
-16
-8
0
8
16
F Mar*
D Jan
N
O
S
A
J
J
M
A
M
F
D Jan
N
O
S
A
J
J
M
A
M
F
Jan
0.0%
-20.6%
-6.8%
Electricity
Mining 
Manufacturing
$ billion
 2018                                                                                                2019     
                      
         2020          
-20
-16
-12
-8
-4
0
M Apr
F
D Jan
N
O
S
A
J
J
M
A
M
F
D Jan
N
O
S
A
J
J
M
A
M
F
Jan
-$3.4 bn
-$3.3 bn
-$6.8 bn
Non-Oil Trade Deficit
Oil Trade Deficit 
Total Trade Deficit
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
 CURRENT STATISTICS
EPW Research Foundation
june 6, 2020 vol lV no 23 
EPW  
Economic & Political Weekly
58
 India’s Quarterly Estimates of Final Expenditures on GDP
 
2017–18 
2018–19 
2019–20
` Crore | At 2011–12 Prices  
Q1  
Q2  
Q3  
Q4 
Q1  
Q2 
Q3 
Q4 
Q1 
Q2 
Q3 
Q4
Private final consumption expenditure 
1769688 (9.3) 1750056 (5.5) 1911901 (5.3) 1948175 (7.7) 1889008 (6.7) 1903853 (8.8) 2046415 (7.0) 2068782 (6.2) 1992967 (5.5) 2025488 (6.4) 2182352 (6.6) 2125099 (2.7)
Government final consumption expenditure 
362769 (21.6) 367882 (7.4) 
319547 (10.5) 293024 (8.9) 
393709 (8.5) 407780 (10.8) 341988 (7.0) 
335089 (14.4) 418249 (6.2) 
465643 (14.2) 387729 (13.4) 380747 (13.6)
Gross fixed capital formation 
958859 (0.7) 967190 (5.9) 1014300 (8.8) 1120847 (13.7) 1082670 (12.9) 1077942 (11.5) 1130201 (11.4) 1170154 (4.4) 1132195 (4.6) 1035736 (-3.9) 1071838 (-5.2) 1094323 (-6.5)
Change in stocks 
49996 (61.7) 54050 (75.8) 
52497 (78.3) 
59252 (79.6) 
64131 (28.3) 66159 (22.4) 
63999 (21.9) 
70126 (18.4) 67328 (5.0) 
66999 (1.3) 
64718 (1.1) 
70445 (0.5)
Valuables   
62905 (80.1) 46317 (25.0) 
39512 (11.2) 
43928 (1.5) 
41080 (-34.7) 44629 (-3.6) 
39252 (-0.7) 
44772 (1.9) 
51347 (25.0) 
51761 (16.0) 
43368 (10.5) 46153 (3.1)
Net trade (Export–import) 
-137041  
-85422  
-128661  
-125231  
-122238  
-141491  
-104580  
-51926  
-117242  
-76355  
-44444  
-59686
Exports  
 
627176 (3.9) 639543 (4.5) 
646620 (4.4) 
688438 (5.0) 
686695 (9.5) 719352 (12.5) 748505 (15.8) 767991 (11.6) 708546 (3.2) 
703282 (-2.2) 703023 (-6.1) 702809 (-8.5)
Less imports  
764217 (21.8) 724965 (10.5) 775281 (14.1) 813669 (23.6) 808933 (5.9) 860843 (18.7) 853085 (10.0) 819917 (0.8) 825788 (2.1) 
779637 (-9.4) 747467 (-12.4) 762495 (-7.0)
Discrepancies  
69397  
132000  
105705  
151725  
10803  
73679  
-17242  
52683  
-9576  
15062  
-62812  
146521
Gross domestic product (GDP) 
3136572 (5.1) 3232072 (7.3) 3314801 (8.7) 3491719 (7.4) 3359162 (7.1) 3432553 (6.2) 3500033 (5.6) 3689678 (5.7) 3535267 (5.2) 3584335 (4.4) 3642748 (4.1) 3803601 (3.1)
 India’s Overall Balance of Payments (Net): Quarterly
 
2018–19 ($ mn) 
2019–20 ($ mn) 
2018–19 (` bn) 
2019–20  (` bn)
Item 
 
 
Q1 
Q2 
Q3 
Q4 
Q1 
Q2 
Q3 
Q1 
Q2 
Q3 
Q4 
Q1 
Q2 
Q3
Current account 
-15803 -19054 -17752 
-4647 
-14417 
-6512 
-1417 
-1059 [-2.3] -1337 [-2.9] -1279 [-2.7] -328 [-0.7] 
-1003 [-2.0] 
-459 [-0.9] 
-101 [-0.2]
 
Merchandise 
-45751 -50037 -49281 -35214 
-46182 
-38085 
-34625 
-3065  
-3510  
-3552  
-2482  
-3212  
-2682  
-2466
 
Invisibles 
29947 
30984 31529 
30567 
31765 
31573 
33208 
2006  
2174  
2272  
2154  
2209  
2224  
2365
 
Services 
18676 
20256 21678 
21331 
20076 
20444 
21880 
1251  
1421  
1562  
1503  
1396  
1440  
1558
 
of which: Software services 
18605 
19286 19895 
19868 
20998 
21064 
21455 
1246  
1353  
1434  
1400  
1460  
1484  
1528
 
Transfers 
17031 
19331 17424 
16160 
17964 
19952 
18693 
1141  
1356  
1256  
1139  
1249  
1405  
1331
 
of which: Private 
17216 
19511 17558 
16317 
18224 
20188 
18932 
1153  
1369  
1265  
1150  
1267  
1422  
1349
 
Income 
-5760 
-8603 -7573 
-6925 
-6275 
-8822 
-7364 
-386  
-604  
-546  
-488  
-436  
-621  
-525
Capital account  
4787 
16604 13770 
19241 
28208 
12283 
22355 
321 [0.7] 
1165 [2.5] 
992 [12.1] 1356 [2.7] 
1962 [4.0] 
865 [1.7] 
1592 [3.1]
 
of which: Foreign investment  
1427 
7612 
5199 
15856 
19041 
10389 
17802 
96  
534  
375  
1117  
1324  
732  
1268
Overall balance  
-11338 
-1868 -4296 
14162 
13984 
5118 
21601 
-760 [-1.7] 
-131 [-0.3] 
-310 [-0.6] 
998 [2.0] 
973 [2.0] 
360 [0.7] 
1539 [3.0]
Figures in square brackets are percentage to GDP.
 Foreign Exchange Reserves 
Variation
 
22 May 
24 May 
31 March 
Over 
Over 
Financial Year So Far 
Financial Year
Excluding gold but including revaluation effects 
2020 
2019 
2020 
Month 
Year 
2019–20 
2020–21 
2015–16 
2016–17 
2017–18 
2018–19 
2019–20
` crore 
 
3441584 
453138 
393634 
3344616 
10153 
59504 
6820 
218620 
25300 
353270 
68050 
668976
$ mn  
 
453138 
40102 
-7950 
443645 
38887 
83458 
85350 
16297 
10160 
53217 
-14168 
56831
 Monetary Aggregates 
Variation
 
Outstanding 
Over Month 
Over Year 
Financial Year So Far 
Financial Year
` Crore  
 
2020 
 
 
2019–20 
2020–21 
2017–18 
2018–19 
2019–20
Money supply (M3) as on 8 May 
17210080 
218454 (1.3) 
1770264 (11.5) 
7749 (0.1) 
410149 (2.4) 
1170657 (9.2) 
1469480 (10.5) 
1367864 (8.9)
Components
 Currency with public 
2474031 
82732 (3.5) 
356270 (16.8) 
65551 (3.2) 
124316 (5.3) 
495583 (39.2) 
292497 (16.6) 
297505 (14.5)
 Demand deposits 
1579847 
-22100 (-1.4) 
154525 (10.8) 
-201191 (-12.4) 
-157846 (-9.1) 
86962 (6.2) 
142801 (9.6) 
111180 (6.8)
 Time deposits 
13117929 
158975 (1.2) 
1249939 (10.5) 
146387 (1.2) 
443914 (3.5) 
585266 (5.8) 
1026347 (9.6) 
952412 (8.1)
 Other deposits with RBI 
38273 
-1153 (-2.9) 
9530 (33.2) 
-2999 (-9.4) 
-234 (-0.6) 
2817 (13.4) 
7835 (32.8) 
6765 (21.3)
Sources
 Net bank credit to government 
5576643 
244719 (4.6) 
974642 (21.2) 
213511 (4.9) 
670060 (13.7) 
144799 (3.8) 
387091 (9.7) 
518093 (11.8)
 Bank credit to commercial sector 
10905094 
-86890 (-0.8) 
671506 (6.6) 
-149132 (-1.4) 
-133551 (-1.2) 
802225 (9.5) 
1169005 (12.7) 
655925 (6.3)
 Net foreign exchange assets 
3860910 
21673 (0.6) 
713823 (22.7) 
76246 (2.5) 
62008 (1.6) 
364065 (14.2) 
148546 (5.1) 
728061 (23.7)
Banking sector’s net non-monetary liabilities 
3158881 
-38954 (-1.2) 
590111 (23.0) 
132900 (5.5) 
188368 (6.3) 
140995 (6.8) 
235395 (10.7) 
534643 (21.9)
Reserve money as on 22 May 
3120817 
101143 (3.3) 
353479 (12.8) 
-3143 (-0.1) 
91144 (3.0) 
518300 (27.3) 
351701 (14.5) 
259192 (9.4)
Components
 Currency in circulation 
2611076 
88150 (3.5) 
406554 (18.4) 
67751 (3.2) 
163797 (6.7) 
494078 (37.0) 
307423 (16.8) 
310508 (14.5)
 Bankers’ deposits with RBI 
468214 
11036 (2.4) 
-66151 (-12.4) 
-67604 (-11.2) 
-75674 (-13.9) 
21405 (3.9) 
36444 (6.4) 
-58081 (-9.6)
 Other deposits with RBI 
41528 
1958 (4.9) 
13076 (46.0) 
-3290 (-10.4) 
3021 (7.8) 
2817 (13.4) 
7835 (32.8) 
6765 (21.3)
Sources
 Net RBI credit to Government 
1266000 
51483 (4.2) 
386791 (44.0) 
77258 (9.6) 
273808 (27.6) 
-144836 (-23.3) 
325987 (68.5) 
190241 (23.7)
 of which:  Centre 
1259291 
45794 (3.8) 
380566 (43.3) 
78252 (9.8) 
269550 (27.2) 
-145304 (-23.5) 
326187 (68.8) 
189268 (23.6)
 RBI credit to banks & commercial sector 
-412016 
14380 (-3.4) 
-431070 (-2262.4) 
-133797 (-87.5) 
-211123 (105.1) 
372643 (-120.5) 
89478 (0.0) 
-353744 (0.0)
 Net foreign exchange assets of RBI 
3700162 
38560 (1.1) 
785866 (27.0) 
65709 (2.3) 
109760 (3.1) 
363571 (15.2) 
87806 (3.2) 
741815 (26.0)
 Govt’s currency liabilities to the public 
26315 
0 (0.0) 
404 (1.6) 
23 (0.1) 
0 (0.0) 
572 (2.3) 
236 (0.9) 
427 (1.6)
 Net non-monetary liabilities of RBI 
1459643 
3279 (0.2) 
388512 (36.3) 
12336 (1.2) 
81301 (5.9) 
73650 (8.8) 
151805 (16.7) 
319547 (30.2)
 Scheduled Commercial Banks’ Indicators (` Crore) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Variation
 
Outstanding 
Over Month 
Over Year 
Financial Year So Far 
Financial Year
(As on 8 May) 
2020 
 
 
2019–20 
2020–21 
2017–18 
2018–19 
2019–20
Aggregate deposits 
13850438 
135511 (1.0) 
1333045 (10.6) 
-56379 (-0.4) 
282946 (2.1) 
668390 (6.2) 
1147722 (10.0) 
993720 (7.9)
 Demand 
1459077 
-22575 (-1.5) 
148372 (11.3) 
-200582 (-13.3) 
-157926 (-9.8) 
88843 (6.9) 
141004 (10.3) 
105716 (7.0)
 Time 
 
12391361 
158086 (1.3) 
1184673 (10.6) 
144203 (1.3) 
440872 (3.7) 
579547 (6.1) 
1006718 (10.0) 
888004 (8.0)
Cash in hand 
85154 
-16 (-0.0) 
8793 (11.5) 
1485 (2.0) 
-2106 (-2.4) 
-1295 (-2.1) 
14811 (24.7) 
12384 (16.5)
Balance with RBI 
423722 
22101 (5.5) 
-82202 (-16.2) 
-59783 (-10.6) 
-81409 (-16.1) 
16906 (3.3) 
40021 (7.6) 
-60576 (-10.7)
Investments 
4028612 
102947 (2.6) 
517556 (14.7) 
129999 (3.8) 
335042 (9.1) 
287494 (9.5) 
62603 (1.9) 
312513 (9.2)
 of which: Government securities 
4027031 
102522 (2.6) 
517822 (14.8) 
130208 (3.9) 
342114 (9.3) 
287657 (9.5) 
61594 (1.9) 
305916 (9.1)
Bank credit 
10252405 
-86894 (-0.8) 
627649 (6.5) 
-146966 (-1.5) 
-118455 (-1.1) 
783965 (10.0) 
1146297 (13.3) 
599138 (6.1)
 of which: Non-food credit 
10183171 
-102055 (-1.0) 
620114 (6.5) 
-167055 (-1.7) 
-135926 (-1.3) 
795906 (10.2) 
1146676 (13.4) 
588985 (6.1)
 Capital Markets 
29 May 
Month 
Year 
Financial Year So Far 
2019–20 
End of Financial Year
 
2020 
Ago 
Ago 
Trough 
Peak 
Trough 
Peak 
2017–18 
2018–19 
2019–20
S&P BSE SENSEX (Base: 1978–79=100) 
32424 (-17.9) 
32720 
39502 (13.0) 
27591 
33718 
25981 
41953 
32969 (12.1) 
39714.20 (12.4) 
29816 (-21.8)
S&P BSE-100 (Base: 1983–84=100) 
9698 (-19.0) 
9653 
11979 (9.3) 
8180 
9951 
7683 
12456 
10503 (11.5) 
12044.07 (9.1) 
8693 (-25.2)
S&P BSE-200 (1989–90=100) 
4040 (-18.5) 
4022 
4960 (7.2) 
3416 
4140 
3209 
5185 
4433 (12.0) 
4986.55 (7.1) 
3614 (-25.1)
CNX Nifty-50 (Base: 3 Nov 1995=1000) 
9580 (-19.2) 
9553 
11861 (11.5) 
8084 
9860 
7610 
12362 
10114 (11.1) 
11922.80 (11.1) 
8660 (-24.3)
CNX Nifty-500 
7822 (-19.8) 
7797 
9757 (5.2) 
6638 
8013 
6243 
10119 
8912 (12.6) 
9805.05 (5.3) 
7003 (-26.3)
Figures in brackets are percentage variations over the specified or over the comparable period of the previous year. | (-)  =  not relevant | -  =  not available | NS  =  new series | PE =  provisional estimates
  Comprehensive current economic statistics with regular weekly updates are available at: http://www.epwrf.in/currentstat.aspx.
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
Published on Saturday, June 6, 2020 
Regd No MCW-238/2018-20 
 
WPP Licence No MR/Tech/WPP-197/West/2018-20. Licensed to post without prepayment. Posted at Patrika Channel 
Sorting Office, Mumbai-1 on every Tuesday-Wednesday. Regd. with the RNI – No 14089/66
60
ECONOMIC & POLITICAL WEEKLY
