7/12/2021
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=10345
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=10345
1/3
Find a copy
Abstract
document 1 of 1
Full Text | Newspapers
Will sleep problems become a risk factor as the pandemic continues? [Healthcare]
Bhatt, S. (2020, Jun 28). Will sleep problems become a risk factor as the pandemic continues? [Healthcare]. The Economic Times https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?
url=https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/newspapers/will-sleep-problems-become-risk-factor-as/docview/2417812719/se-2?accountid=10345
Check OneSearch for Availability
http://p9003-sfx.calstate.edu.falcon.lib.csub.edu/csub?url_ver=Z39.88-
2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Aabiglobal&atitle=Will+sleep+problems+become+a+risk+factor+as+the+pandemic+continues%3
06-28&volume=&issue=&spage=&au=Bhatt%2C+Shephali&isbn=&jtitle=The+Economic+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/
None available.
Full Text
Sonali Malaviya never obsessed about her sleep, until now. "Normally, I would go to bed at 10:30 in the night and wake up by 6 am," says the Gurgaon-based tech marketing
professional, who is in her early 40s. Over the last three months, though, she has been getting up at 3 am every night. "I check my sleep tracking app once a week and it
shows that I am only getting four hours of sleep every day.
Typically, when you wake up in the night, you go back to sleep. These days the mind is never at rest so that is not happening anymore," says Malaviya, filing it under latent
Covid-19 stress.
The lack of sleep has emerged as a major casualty in the wake of the global pandemic and the subsequent lockdown it has brought about in many countries, say insomnia
therapists around the world. People across age groups are worried about catching Covid or passing it on to their family. They are concerned about job security. In many cases,
the lockdown restrictions leave them with nothing time-bound to wake up to either. All these have led to "almost everyone" seeking therapy complaining of lack of sleep or a
ruptured sleep cycle, say the therapists. And at least one-third of these are facing this issue for the first time.
Ravi Kant, a 27-year-old student from IIM-Shillong, started having sleepless nights after the lockdown forced him to return to his hometown, Patna, thereby disrupting his
college routine. Though the classes shifted online, worries about an uncertain future keep him wide awake till the wee hours of the morning. He now uses the time between
midnight and 6 am to focus on studying instead.
76663983"If users express anxiety over tracking their sleep, we advise them to scrap the trackers and concentrate on how they feel in the morning. That is the best sleep
quality score you will ever get" Carl Johan Hederoth, CEO, Sleep Cycle
"Family has also accepted this as my new normal." As people are getting sleepless in Seattle, Shoreditch and Shillong, some are reaching out to tech for help. The downloads of
sleep tracking app Sleep Monitor were up by 1.5X between April and May, and by 2X from May to June so far, at over a million Android installs. "We saw a lot of users from the
US and European countries (mainly from France, Italy, the UK, German, Turkey, Poland) from March to May," says a company spokesperson via email. "In May and June, we saw
users increasingly downloading the app from Brazil, Indonesia, Vietnam and Egypt. All those were organic users."
76663832"People of colour are likely to have more sleep-related anxieties during these times. They prefer going to practitioners of colour but there aren't a lot of insomnia
experts of colour in the country" Joshua Tal, sleep and health psychologist, New York
Medication for sleep is the most preferred route in the US, say the therapists. In India, however, people prefer trying yoga, exercises, sleep-centric music and podcasts.
Sleep featured in the top 10 moods for users in India every week on Spotify since mid-April. Over the last three months, India was also among the top 10 streaming markets for
popular sleep podcasts on the music-streaming app, according to data shared by the company's PR team.
Over 40% of the people approaching MindPeers, a mental health tech platform, suffer from sleep-related issues, says founder Kanika Agarwal who shuttles between Delhi and
Singapore. "Some people who reached out hadn't slept in 3-4 days," she says. The platform is active in Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru at present. Ishita Pateria, a counselling
psychologist based in Mumbai, says she has seen a 70% spike in mild to major cases of insomnia among her clients in the past two months.
Sleepless in the city
3X More sleep-related enquiries to therapists after Covid-19 outbreak20-30% Of sleep-related enquiries are from those experiencing insomnia for the first time2X Increase in
May-June downloads of tracking app Sleep Monitor; it was 1.5X in April-May33% Hike in sleep music usage on meditation app Headspace since Mid-March, against past 30
daysSleep featured in Top 10 moods on Spotify for Indian users every week since mid-AprilJust why are so many people around the world having sleepless nights these days?
Lindsay Browning, a sleep expert from London, explains it with an analogy: "If you see a lion coming to attack you, you will not be able to fall asleep, will you? Your body senses
it to be a life-threatening danger and reacts accordingly. Heart rate goes up, so does your breathing rate, and there is a sudden rush of adrenaline.
It prompts the person to run in the opposite direction." Covid-19 is what many see as a similar danger coming at them. "But this time you can't physically run away." So, the
body responds to stress by staying awake.
76663842"Short-term sleep problems aren't going to kill anybody. Else, every new set of parents would be dead. Our bodies will be able to recover from this" Lindsay Browning,
sleep expert, London
The lockdown-led challenges don't help. The human body has a circadian rhythm that takes cues from the sun to follow a routine which keeps them awake during the day and
asleep at night. "A lot of people, say, in countries like Italy and cities like New York, live in flats that don't get enough sunshine to get these cues. While working from home,
7/12/2021
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=10345
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=10345
2/3
Subject
Parents & parenting; 
Insomnia; 
Sleep; 
Therapists; 
people are also eating meals at erratic hours, which further confuses the body and messes up the circadian rhythm," she adds.
76663953Sonali Malaviya, early 40s Tech marketing professional, Gurgaon
"Typically when you wake up in the night, you go back to sleep soon enough. These days that is not happening"
Before Covid: Went to bed by 10:30
pm, out of bed by 6 am
Since Covid: Wide awake by 3 am
Cause: Latent stress about the uncertain future
Workaround: Reading books - the paper version - and leaving all devices aside
Some are more susceptible to sleep anxiety than others. "Ethnic minorities like African Americans in the US and the Asians in the UK are more likely to have sleep problems,"
says Browning. Joshua Tal, a New York-based sleep and health psychologist, agrees. "Due to systemic racism paired with the general distress around medical facilities at the
moment, people of colour are likely to have more sleep-related anxieties during these times. They prefer going to practitioners of colour but there aren't a lot of insomnia
experts of colour in the country, which leaves them feeling they are left alone," says Tal.
At MindPeers, 18-25-year-olds complain about sleep the most, citing concerns around uncertain career prospects. In the UK, Browning sees parents whose children are being
home-schooled now suffering from lack of sleep. These parents care for kids during the day and tackle their work during late hours. "Children are struggling with sleep, too,"
she says. "In London, the Covid briefing happens at 5 pm. The kids watch the news along with parents and it affects them as well." As if lack of sleep wasn't enough, many are
now having recurring nightmares.
76663895"Our online classes have moved to evenings because a lot of people have better internet connectivity during the second half of the day in their hometowns. We're
studying from evening to morning now. Families have understood this is our new normal"
Ravi Kant, 27, student at IIM-Shillong, lives in Patna
Before Covid: Slept for 6-7 hours in the night
Since Covid: Sleeps only for 2-3 hours early morning
Cause: Disruption in college routine
Workaround: Embraced the new sleep cycle for the time being
People in major Covid-hit cities like New York, Mumbai and London complain of vivid dreams that often align with the impact of the pandemic on their respective city. In New
York, for instance, "many talk about having disaster-related dreams where they see the city crumbling down in an Armageddon-like scenario," says Tal.
In Mumbai, Pateria's clients have spoken about dreaming of not being able to run away from an incoming threat. "One of them said they saw someone coming to harm them but
their legs were tied to each other so they couldn't escape." In the UK, people have had emotionally unsettling dreams connected to their family, says Browning.
As minds are on high alert almost all the time, these nightmares also wake them up in the wee hours of the night.
Worries around sleep are valid. Therapists say a good sleep releases motivational hormones and charges up the mind and the body. A lack thereof makes way for stress
hormones that result in physical and mental fatigue. Mumbai-based advert ising professional Omkar Joshi, 27, is worried his erratic sleep cycle during the lockdown period is
turning into a habit that will be hard to come out of "once normalcy returns". However, Browning says this is likely to be a temporary issue and our bodies will be able to recover
from this. "Short-term sleep problems aren't going to kill anybody or every new set of parents would be dead," she says, reinforcing her point. Besides, losing sleep over
sleeplessness may just make things worse. "Embracing an erratic sleep cycle is the ideal approach at the moment, as sleep pressure compounds the issue," says Tal from New
York.
Therapists also ask their clients to build a sleep routine instead of worrying about not getting enough sleep. This routine involves visualising their sleeping environment - the
bed, the bedsheet, the pillow - to ease them into the act of sleeping. Mobiles should be kept away from the bed and fragrant lotions and music should be used. Rajkumari Daga,
a 57-year-old homemaker from Mumbai is following a "no coffee after 7 and dinner by 8" routine to revert to her normal sleep cycle of 11 pm to 7 am which has gone for a toss
in the last three months, she says. Shalini L, a Mumbai-based marketing professional, listens to music from meditation apps like Calm and Headspace to quell her sleeping
anxiety. "Since mid-March, as news of the global health crisis steadily increased, Headspace saw a 33% increase in its sleep music usage over the last 30 days of usage," says
Rich Pierson, the CEO & cofounder of Headspace. The app has over 10 million downloads on Android at present.
76663913
Browning guides her clients on different breathing techniques to help them calm down. She also suggests people allocate some time during the day to process their worries,
perhaps via expressive writing in journals.
"That way some of the tension is released during the day itself." At MindPeers, Agarwal's team of psychologists often ask their clients to draw their palm on a paper and write all
the things they can control within the palm and those out of their control outside the palm. It gives them perspective and a direction to tackle their worries, she says. A lot of
people are also finding solace in the fact that they're not alone in this, that many people are battling insomnia at present.
Most therapists are also actively discouraging clients from using sleep trackers during this period if too much information about their sleep cycle overwhelms them. The makers
of certain sleep trackers propagate this, too. "If users express anxiety over tracking their sleep, we advise them to go scrap trackers and concentrate on how they feel in the
morning. That is the best sleep quality score you will ever get," says Carl Johan Hederoth, CEO, Sleep Cycle, that has over 5 million Android installs.
Even Malaviya in Gurgaon has chosen not to get hassled by her sleep tracker's results anymore. "When you look back at the many difficult things you have gone through in life,
it doesn't feel as hard now as it did then," she says, hoping that it will be the same this time around, too.
Copyright Bennett, Coleman & Company Limited Jun 28, 2020
7/12/2021
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=10345
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=10345
3/3
Stress; 
Pandemics; 
Families & family life; 
Worry; 
Circadian rhythm; 
Streaming media; 
Coronaviruses; 
Cities; 
Psychologists; 
COVID-19 
Corporation:
Industry:
Business indexing term
Spotify AB 
62133: 
Offices of Mental Health Practitioners (except Physicians) 
Location
Italy; United States--US; New York; India; United Kingdom--UK; Mumbai India
Name:
NAICS:
Company / organization
Spotify AB
519130
Classification
62133: Offices of Mental Health Practitioners (except Physicians)
Title
Will sleep problems become a risk factor as the pandemic continues? [Healthcare]
Author
Bhatt, Shephali
Publication title
The Economic Times; New Delhi
Publication year
2020
Publication date
Jun 28, 2020
Publisher
Bennett, Coleman & Company Limited
Place of publication
New Delhi
Country of publication
India, New Delhi
Publication subject
Business And Economics, General Interest Periodicals--India
ISSN
09718680
Source type
Newspapers
Language of publication
English
Document type
News
ProQuest document ID
2417812719
Document URL
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/newspapers/will-sleep-problems-become-risk-factor-
as/docview/2417812719/se-2?accountid=10345
Copyright
Copyright Bennett, Coleman & Company Limited Jun 28, 2020
Last updated
2020-11-19
Database
2 databases View list
ABI/INFORM Collection
Global Newsstream
Bibliography
Citation style: APA 7th (basic) - No Case Changes (No Title Casing), DOI: empty
Bhatt, S. (2020, Jun 28). Will sleep problems become a risk factor as the pandemic continues? [Healthcare]. The Economic Times https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?
url=https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/newspapers/will-sleep-problems-become-risk-factor-as/docview/2417812719/se-2?accountid=10345
Database copyright © 2021 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved. Terms and Conditions
