Find a copy
Abstract
document 1 of 1
Full Text | Newspapers
‘I feel scared and intimidated’: Coronavirus-inspired racism sows fear, anger in
local Asian community
Choi, H. (2020, Aug 01). ‘I feel scared and intimidated’: Coronavirus-inspired racism sows fear, anger in local
Asian community. Austin American Statesman https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www-proquest-
com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/newspapers/i-feel-scared-intimidated/docview/2429413151/se-2?accountid=10345
Check OneSearch for Availability
http://p9003-sfx.calstate.edu.falcon.lib.csub.edu/csub?url_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi
/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Asouthcentralnews&
atitle=%26lsquo%3BI+feel+scared+and+intimidated%26rsquo%3B%3A+Coronavirus-
inspired+racism+sows+fear%2C+anger+in+local+Asian+community&title=Austin+American+Statesman&
issn=&date=2020-08-01&volume=&issue=&spage=1&au=Choi%2C+Hojun&isbn=&
jtitle=Austin+American+Statesman&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/
None available.
Full Text
Hurt. Angry. Unsafe.
That's how Jasmine Yuan says she felt in March when a stranger in a car yelled “corona!” at her while driving by
in a grocery store parking lot in North Austin.
Yuan, 39, said she loves Austin and considers it a diverse, multicultural city, but lamented that she now fears
portions of town that used to be part of her everyday life. After the incident, Yuan said she has avoided public
places that she feels might put her at risk of being targeted again.
“I feel scared and intimidated. I just don’t want to have this experience happen again,” Yuan said.
Racist verbal and physical attacks have been reported at growing rates around the country since March,
according to people who have started tracking the trend nationally.
Firefox
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=...
第 1 頁，共 7 頁
7/30/2021 下午 09:48
And local Asian American community leaders like Hugh Li, president of the education and philanthropy group
Austin Chinese American Network, fear anti-Asian attitudes tied to the coronavirus pandemic could stick around
long after the pandemic and worsen due to waning U.S.-China relations and economic hardship.
“I think this will naturally put Asian Americans, and particularly Chinese Americans, in a really bad bind,” he
said.
Li said his organization
recently circulated a survey asking its hundreds of members to report incidents of racism they have witnessed
or experienced during the pandemic, and it has so far have received two reports.
Yuan, who moved to the U.S. 13 years ago and has lived in Austin with her husband and two children since
2011, responded to the survey. She said she did not immediately report her experience at the grocery store,
hoping it had been an isolated incident.
“But if more and more of this happens, this becomes a trend,” Yuan said. “That makes me think that I need to
stand up and talk about this.”
Austin resident Jae Kwon, 35, who is Korean American, said he was the target of several aggressions that he
suspects were motivated by race.
Kwon, a University of Texas sociology doctoral student who has lived in Austin since 2015, said something was
thrown at him, a woman screamed something inaudible from a car, and a stranger yelled obscenities at him
during a six-day span in May while he was running for exercise. On another occasion, Kwon said a person
sprayed him with a water gun while driving by.
“It’s unusual in the sense that things like this had not happened other times,” said Kwon, who also served 12
years in the U.S. Navy. “I can only think that these are unrelated incidents, but it’s related in the sense that it
happened in this time period.”
G. Michael Pendon, 43, a local DJ, reported that a group of men harassed him using anti-Chinese and
homophobic slurs while he was riding a bicycle through a neighborhood near the UT campus July 18.
Pendon, whose parents came to the U.S. from the Philippines in the 1960s, said he could not sleep that night.
“I was pissed off. I was tired. I felt like I needed to go down there. I was kind of obsessed about trying to figure
this out,” he said.
Austin police have confirmed that they are investigating the matter. Pendon said he has also spoken to the UT
Police Department.
"I just want to identify these perpetrators," Pendon said.
Resurfacing biases
Experts in the field of Asian American history say racial violence and tensions during events like a pandemic are
not a new phenomenon.
Russell Jeung, chair of Asian American studies at San Francisco State University, said the pandemic has
reignited old, yet lingering anti-Asian sentiments in the West.
“There is a historical stereotype on Asians — the yellow peril — that they are a threat that would come dominate
the West with their hordes and their diseases,” Jeung said.
Firefox
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=...
第 2 頁，共 7 頁
7/30/2021 下午 09:48
Jeung helped start Stop AAPI Hate, an online system in which people across the country can report racially
charged incidents against Asian Americans through a form translated into more than 10 languages.
“We launched it, and immediately we got flooded with responses, and using the data we’ve been sharing it
with local jurisdictions,” Jeung said.
Jeung said that, from March 19 through July 1, the organization received more than 2,120 reports of racially
motivated attacks against Asian Americans from across the country.
In more than 500 cases, Jeung said people reported being told to go back to China. One respondent from
Austin said they were told to go back to their country by a person who used a racial epithet to describe the
coronavirus.
A relatively small number of cases — 63 incidents — were from Texas, but reports came from every major
Texas city. About 22% of those reports involved physical attacks, more than double the national rate, Jeung
said. About 63% of reported attacks in Texas were verbal.
People of Chinese descent are not the only segment of the Asian American population targeted since the
pandemic started. On March 14, three people of Burmese descent, including 2- and 6-year-old children, were
attacked in the West Texas city of Midland by a man with a knife.
Jeung said Trump's rhetoric on China makes Asian Americans more vulnerable to racist attacks.
According to Factba.se, an independent online database of words from Trump’s speeches, media interviews
and tweets, the president used the term “China Virus” or “Chinese Virus” a total of eight times between
March and April, not including instances in which he blamed China for the pandemic without using those
terms.
In July alone, the database showed that Trump used different variations of the phrase at least 32 times.
"Trump makes the connection that the virus is Chinese, but he also normalizes the hate," Jeung said.
Jeung said the news media's framing of discussions and depictions of the pandemic, especially in its early
days, also has eroded the image of the Asian community in the country.
In addition to referring to the pathogen as the “Wuhan Virus,” many news organizations frequently ran clips
and images of people of East Asian descent wearing face masks, Jeung said.
“We all have implicit biases, and we have fight or flight responses,” Jeung said. “During the pandemic people
are fearful, and when they’re fearful, they automatically respond.”
A local group called the Austin Asian Community Health Initiative in May started a reporting system for
pandemic-related racist aggressions, and is working with Austin Public Health to track the data. Though the
organization has not yet received any local reports, Executive Director Hailey Easley said she believes the tool
will be useful in tracking racism well after the pandemic.
“I actually see this opening up,” Easley said. “I imagine that this could be helpful beyond COVID-19, and it
could be helpful for people of all ethnicities and all races.”
Local response
Amy Wong Mok, an established activist in the local Asian community, has been informing Mayor Steve Adler
and Austin Police Chief Brian Manley about racist incidents she has heard about.
Firefox
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=...
第 3 頁，共 7 頁
7/30/2021 下午 09:48
In March, Mok, along with representatives from the Asian American Quality of Life Advisory Commission,
alerted city officials about rising anti-Asian racism amid the pandemic.
Mok said she heard multiple accounts of people being verbally harassed in March, and more recently,
reported that an Asian food supply company had three of its trucks vandalized.
Mok said she will continue to push city leaders to raise awareness and investigate reported incidents.
“No matter how long we’ve been here, no matter how much we contribute to society, we’re still viewed as
outsiders,” Mok said.
The Austin City Council in April unanimously passed a resolution condemning racism and hate speech
against Asian Americans.
Adler told the American-Statesman that city officials will continue working to address anti-Asian racism in
the city.
“Austin is no place for hate. We will continue to do all we can — in every way we can — to help make sure
that all our neighbors feel safe,” Adler said in a written statement. “We can’t prevent all this behavior but
we can shine light on it, condemn and make clear it is not tolerated in Austin.”
Alice Yi, president of the Austin chapter of the Asian Pacific Islander American Public Affairs, said political
participation can fight the stereotype that Asian Americans are perpetual foreigners.
Yi said her organization is working to get more people registered to vote in the November elections and
has helped people in the Asian American community fill out the 2020 census.
“If we have a huge amount of representation, maybe we cannot be scapegoated so easily,” Yi said. “If we
have a larger head count, we might have more representation politically and have more power to speak
out and speak louder.”
recently circulated a survey asking its hundreds of members to report incidents of racism they have
witnessed or experienced during the pandemic, and it has so far have received two reports.
Yuan, who moved to the U.S. 13 years ago and has lived in Austin with her husband and two children since
2011, responded to the survey. She said she did not immediately report her experience at the grocery
store, hoping it had been an isolated incident.
“But if more and more of this happens, this becomes a trend,” Yuan said. “That makes me think that I need
to stand up and talk about this.”
Austin resident Jae Kwon, 35, who is Korean American, said he was the target of several aggressions that
he suspects were motivated by race.
Kwon, a University of Texas sociology doctoral student who has lived in Austin since 2015, said something
was thrown at him, a woman screamed something inaudible from a car, and a stranger yelled obscenities
at him during a six-day span in May while he was running for exercise. On another occasion, Kwon said a
person sprayed him with a water gun while driving by.
“It’s unusual in the sense that things like this had not happened other times,” said Kwon, who also served
12 years in the U.S. Navy. “I can only think that these are unrelated incidents, but it’s related in the sense
that it happened in this time period.”
G. Michael Pendon, 43, a local DJ, reported that a group of men harassed him using anti-Chinese and
Firefox
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=...
第 4 頁，共 7 頁
7/30/2021 下午 09:48
homophobic slurs while he was riding a bicycle through a neighborhood near the UT campus July 18.
Pendon, whose parents came to the U.S. from the Philippines in the 1960s, said he could not sleep that
night.
“I was pissed off. I was tired. I felt like I needed to go down there. I was kind of obsessed about trying
to figure this out,” he said.
Austin police have confirmed that they are investigating the matter. Pendon said he has also spoken to
the UT Police Department.
"I just want to identify these perpetrators," Pendon said.
Resurfacing biases
Experts in the field of Asian American history say racial violence and tensions during events like a
pandemic are not a new phenomenon.
Russell Jeung, chair of Asian American studies at San Francisco State University, said the pandemic has
reignited old, yet lingering anti-Asian sentiments in the West.
“There is a historical stereotype on Asians — the yellow peril — that they are a threat that would come
dominate the West with their hordes and their diseases,” Jeung said.
Jeung helped start Stop AAPI Hate, an online system in which people across the country can report
racially charged incidents against Asian Americans through a form translated into more than 10
languages.
“We launched it, and immediately we got flooded with responses, and using the data we’ve been sharing
it with local jurisdictions,” Jeung said.
Jeung said that, from March 19 through July 1, the organization received more than 2,120 reports of
racially motivated attacks against Asian Americans from across the country.
In more than 500 cases, Jeung said people reported being told to go back to China. One respondent
from Austin said they were told to go back to their country by a person who used a racial epithet to
describe the coronavirus.
A relatively small number of cases — 63 incidents — were from Texas, but reports came from every
major Texas city. About 22% of those reports involved physical attacks, more than double the national
rate, Jeung said. About 63% of reported attacks in Texas were verbal.
People of Chinese descent are not the only segment of the Asian American population targeted since the
pandemic started. On March 14, three people of Burmese descent, including 2- and 6-year-old children,
were attacked in the West Texas city of Midland by a man with a knife.
Jeung said Trump's rhetoric on China makes Asian Americans more vulnerable to racist attacks.
According to Factba.se, an independent online database of words from Trump’s speeches, media
interviews and tweets, the president used the term “China Virus” or “Chinese Virus” a total of eight
times between March and April, not including instances in which he blamed China for the pandemic
without using those terms.
In July alone, the database showed that Trump used different variations of the phrase at least 32 times.
Firefox
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=...
第 5 頁，共 7 頁
7/30/2021 下午 09:48
"Trump makes the connection that the virus is Chinese, but he also normalizes the hate," Jeung said.
Jeung said the news media's framing of discussions and depictions of the pandemic, especially in its
early days, also has eroded the image of the Asian community in the country.
In addition to referring to the pathogen as the “Wuhan Virus,” many news organizations frequently
ran clips and images of people of East Asian descent wearing face masks, Jeung said.
“We all have implicit biases, and we have fight or flight responses,” Jeung said. “During the pandemic
people are fearful, and when they’re fearful, they automatically respond.”
A local group called the Austin Asian Community Health Initiative in May started a reporting system
for pandemic-related racist aggressions, and is working with Austin Public Health to track the data.
Though the organization has not yet received any local reports, Executive Director Hailey Easley said
she believes the tool will be useful in tracking racism well after the pandemic.
“I actually see this opening up,” Easley said. “I imagine that this could be helpful beyond COVID-19,
and it could be helpful for people of all ethnicities and all races.”
Local response
Amy Wong Mok, an established activist in the local Asian community, has been informing Mayor Steve
Adler and Austin Police Chief Brian Manley about racist incidents she has heard about.
In March, Mok, along with representatives from the Asian American Quality of Life Advisory
Commission, alerted city officials about rising anti-Asian racism amid the pandemic.
Mok said she heard multiple accounts of people being verbally harassed in March, and more recently,
reported that an Asian food supply company had three of its trucks vandalized.
Mok said she will continue to push city leaders to raise awareness and investigate reported incidents.
“No matter how long we’ve been here, no matter how much we contribute to society, we’re still
viewed as outsiders,” Mok said.
The Austin City Council in April unanimously passed a resolution condemning racism and hate speech
against Asian Americans.
Adler told the American-Statesman that city officials will continue working to address anti-Asian
racism in the city.
“Austin is no place for hate. We will continue to do all we can — in every way we can — to help make
sure that all our neighbors feel safe,” Adler said in a written statement. “We can’t prevent all this
behavior but we can shine light on it, condemn and make clear it is not tolerated in Austin.”
Alice Yi, president of the Austin chapter of the Asian Pacific Islander American Public Affairs, said
political participation can fight the stereotype that Asian Americans are perpetual foreigners.
Yi said her organization is working to get more people registered to vote in the November elections
and has helped people in the Asian American community fill out the 2020 census.
“If we have a huge amount of representation, maybe we cannot be scapegoated so easily,” Yi said. “If
we have a larger head count, we might have more representation politically and have more power to
speak out and speak louder.”
Firefox
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=...
第 6 頁，共 7 頁
7/30/2021 下午 09:48
Subject
Asian Americans;
Racism;
Coronaviruses;
COVID-19
Location
China; Texas; United States--US
Title
‘I feel scared and intimidated’: Coronavirus-inspired racism
sows fear, anger in local Asian community
Author
Choi, Hojun
Publication title
Austin American Statesman; Austin, Tex.
First page
1
Publication year
2020
Publication date
Aug 1, 2020
Publisher
GateHouse Media, Inc.
Place of publication
Austin, Tex.
Country of publication
United States, Austin, Tex.
Publication subject
General Interest Periodicals--United States
Source type
Newspapers
Language of publication
English
Document type
News
ProQuest document ID
2429413151
Document URL
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www-proquest-
com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/newspapers/i-feel-scared-intimidated
/docview/2429413151/se-2?accountid=10345
Copyright
Copyright GateHouse Media, Inc. Aug 1, 2020
Last updated
2020-08-01
Database
Global Newsstream
Copyright GateHouse Media, Inc. Aug 1, 2020
Bibliography
Citation style: APA 7th (basic) - No Case Changes (No Title Casing), DOI: empty
Choi, H. (2020, Aug 01). ‘I feel scared and intimidated’: Coronavirus-inspired racism sows fear,
anger in local Asian community. Austin American Statesman https://falcon.lib.csub.edu
/login?url=https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/newspapers/i-feel-scared-intimidated
/docview/2429413151/se-2?accountid=10345
Database copyright © 2021 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved. Terms and Conditions
Firefox
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=...
第 7 頁，共 7 頁
7/30/2021 下午 09:48
