Find a copy
Abstract
document 1 of 1
Full Text | Newspaper
Wasted Chances: It may not have started here, but the novel coronavirus became a US
tragedy
Wasted Chances: It may not have started here, but the novel coronavirus became a US tragedy. (2020, Dec 16). The
Tennessean https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wasted-chances/docview
/2470294839/se-2?accountid=10345
Check OneSearch for Availability
http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&
sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Asoutheastnews&
atitle=Wasted+Chances%3A+It+may+not+have+started+here%2C+but+the+novel+coronavirus+became+a+US+tragedy&
title=The+Tennessean&issn=10536590&date=2020-12-16&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=&isbn=&
jtitle=The+Tennessean&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/
None available.
Full Text
On Feb. 29, hundreds of people packed into the Pullman Christian Reformed Church, a squat, beige brick building on
Chicago's South Side. An attendee began the ceremonies by blasting a shofar, the trumpet made out of a ram's horn.
Somebody played keyboard. And a long line of people waited to speak into a microphone about their memories of Angeli
Demus. |The lifelong Chicagoan, who had died a month earlier at age 59, insisted she didn't want it called a funeral.
"Donate, cremate, celebrate," had been her credo to her family near the end of a gutting battle with lung cancer, and with
her eyes donated and her body cremated, all that was left was this party. |Her husband, Earl Demus, billed it as "Angeli's
Joyous Celebration," and thought that the crowd it gathered spoke to his wife's beloved nature. "Standing room only,"
recounted Demus, who estimated there were more than 450 people there. "I stopped counting after a while."
The disconcerting news story that seemed recently to creep into every conversation, particularly after it tanked the stock
market the previous week, didn't make it past the doors of the church. Nobody wore a mask or kept their distance, and for
the most part nobody even talked about the novel coronavirus. It had only started to trickle into the United States, as far
as anybody knew, and the few cases in Illinois were said to be isolated and controlled.
A top health official had a week earlier assured Chicagoans that "the health risk to the general public from novel
coronavirus remains low," and the outlook from the highest levels of government was that, nationally, the few instances of
the virus were disappearing. President Donald Trump had said three days earlier there were 15 cases in the country, and
"the 15 within a couple of days is going to be down to close to zero."
In a room off to the side of the church, people sipped soft drinks and picked at a spread catered by a neighborhood chef:
finger sandwiches, sliders, fruit and cheese, chicken and Angeli's favorite dessert, cheesecake. This room was where her
father, Charles Dungill, spent most of the event.
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 1 頁，共 16 頁
12/7/2021 下午 11:21
Everybody called him "Cookie," a throwback to his days as a drummer in a family band that toured everywhere Black
performers were allowed in Jim Crow's America. Cookie shook hands, hugged and chatted with relatives and friends, some
of whom had traveled from California, Michigan, Georgia, Ohio and Nevada. A family friend was fresh off a golfing trip to
Arizona and another had recently returned from South Africa.
It was the West Chatham diaspora, a testament to the lasting bonds of the tight-knit Chicago neighborhood in which
Cookie and his wife, Barbara, had raised Angeli and her three surviving siblings: brothers Sevil and Kyann, and sister Gina.
A couple of days after the celebration at the church, Sevil stopped by Cookie's house to check on him. The kids were
worried about their dad. They'd noticed little changes in his appearance: a slight droop to his posture, something different
in his eyes.
It wasn't just his daughter's death with which he was reckoning. Barbara, his wife of 63 years, had died less than a week
before Angeli's celebration, after suffering from multiple ailments, including cancer.
But Sevil found his dad in good enough spirits, having enjoyed the event at Pullman so much that he wanted to plan the
same thing for Barbara. Father and son chatted for about three hours, during which Sevil noticed that his dad had a slight
hitch in his throat.
Probably post-nasal drip.
The next day after work, Sevil was driving back to his dad's house, bringing him Barbara's ashes from the crematorium,
when he realized: Now he had a little cough, too.
"You know, just a hee-mmh," Sevil later recalled.
***
Before the nearly 300,000 deaths, the widespread financial devastation, the isolation from loved ones and the fatigue of a
daily disaster with no clear end, there was this: A tickle in a throat in Chicago. A woman's sudden crash to the floor of her
kitchen in the Bay Area. A playwright in Manhattan with three-quarters of a lung left in his chest, sensing doom and fleeing
down the coast with his husband.
The virus shouldn't have been able to sneak up on the United States. The world's most powerful nation, historically among
the most successful at stymieing infectious illnesses, had ample lead time during which the deadly pandemic was
rampaging through Asia, and then Europe.
But in an early vacuum of leadership at almost every government level, with the message from the White House that the
virus was not anything to worry about, Americans unwittingly spread the lethal virus to loved ones and strangers alike.
The U.S. squandered its early advantage. Roughly one year after the virus first came into existence, the country has
suffered a loss of life far worse than any other.
Dr. Megan Ranney, an emergency physician and professor at Brown University, said COVID-19's traits made it a formidable
opponent for even those large nations most competent at fighting it.
But, she added, in the United States in 2020, the virus found an ideal victim. "The virus could not have emerged at a
better time for spread than this year," Ranney said. "We were in an election year. We had a president who didn't believe in
science. We had underfunding of our public health institutions. It was a perfect storm."
In an effort to better understand how the virus exploited the country's strengths and exposed its weaknesses, USA TODAY
interviewed biologists and studied scientific genomic analysis, federal reports concerning super-spreading events, county
medical examiner's data from around the country, and state-level death and infection data.
Reporters used those sources to find and report the stories, many of them previously untold, of Americans in the path of
the virus.
What emerges is a portrait of misinformation and confusion leading to a devastating failure to unite against a common
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 2 頁，共 16 頁
12/7/2021 下午 11:21
threat.
Piecemeal policies offered a dangerously hollow illusion of control and safety. Scientists, intermittently ignored and
villainized, were powerless. As citizens protested and rioted in response to racist police tactics, others detected a more
subtle form of prejudice in apathy toward a virus that disproportionately sickened Black and Brown Americans. Early
ignorance about the spread metastasized into partisan conspiracy-mongering and threats, leading to that most
American phenomenon: a health official with a bulletproof vest.
The novel coronavirus didn't start in the United States, but we have made it our own.
MLK Jr. Day: Zero official deaths
On Jan. 23, Dr. Benhur Lee stayed up late in his Manhattan apartment, working through the global ramifications of the
virus Americans had been told was not a threat to them.
"We have it totally under control," Trump had said the day before when asked about the single known case in the United
States. "It's one person, coming in from China."
But none of the early epidemiological research Lee was picking up from China, where the virus had killed thousands and
brought life to a standstill, suggested that assessment was correct.
Lee runs a research lab at Mount Sinai's medical school in New York City. He made a name for himself as an HIV
researcher in the early 2000s before moving on to tracking emerging viruses, becoming an expert on viruses such as
nipah, the bat-borne sickness featured in the film "Contagion."
Lee was one of thousands of scientists throughout the world who had since December been piecing together small
studies from doctors in other countries to understand the features of the virus that had emerged in Wuhan, with their
clues as to how it could be stopped.
In early January, scientists from China and Australia released an initial genome sequence of the virus. It closely
resembled SARS, the virus that much of the world barely dodged two decades earlier. And on this Thursday night, Lee
couldn't sleep because scientists had just released new findings estimating the human-to-human spread of the novel
coronavirus.
It was as infectious as Ebola, slightly less infectious than the 1918 Spanish flu, and much less infectious than HIV and
malaria. Lee tried to put the data in context by tweet. Over next few months, his Twitter account – @VirusWhisperer –
would gain tens of thousands of followers.
Lee knew that the United States had previously benefited from a mix of luck and coordination between U.S. agencies
and their international counterparts in stemming SARS and Ebola. That history was cold comfort to Lee, who knew that
the factors making a virus dangerous were difficult to predict.
The scientific community was not yet in agreement that the virus was capable of asymptomatic spread. Because carriers
often don't know they have it and in turn don't isolate, asymptomatic spread is a boon for a virus's rate of infection.
Lee didn't need a double-blind study to determine what was happening. The way the virus had blitzed across China was
evidence enough.
"There was obviously asymptomatic transmission going on," Lee said.
Over the next few weeks, Lee would witness a study in contrasts in how seriously major nations were taking the novel
coronavirus. On Jan. 25, he left for a microbiology conference in Sydney, stopping on the way in his home country of
Singapore. It was the beginning of the Year of the Rat, and Lee was celebrating the holiday with a visit to his parents.
He landed just as news broke that Singapore had its first confirmed case, in a traveler from Wuhan. Officials with latex
gloves and temperature guns checked for fever as he disembarked and boarded, and travelers from the Chinese
province that includes Wuhan were barred from entering the country.
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 3 頁，共 16 頁
12/7/2021 下午 11:21
By the time Lee returned to the United States on Feb. 3, there were confirmed cases on both coasts and in the
Midwest, and officials were announcing new ones every couple of days.
As he disembarked in Newark, New Jersey, Lee readied for the temperature check, the symptom screening, even the
racial profiling of an Asian traveler.
Instead, he checked in at a digital kiosk just as he always did. There was no temperature check. The border official
welcomed him into the country with no screening questions.
As he rolled his luggage out of the airport, Lee thought, That's not good.
***
For Dr. Jeff Smith, the top administrative official of Santa Clara County in California's Bay Area, it was a forgettable
topic of conversation, just one spouse griping about work to another.
In December 2019, Smith – who in addition to being county executive is also a medical doctor and a lawyer – was
chatting with his wife, a primary care doctor befuddled recently by an influx of patients seeking treatment for flu-like
symptoms, including coughing, achiness and fever. But when she tested for influenza, it came back negative.
Smith had no reason to think much of it.
"It was just a matter of, 'Well, gee, there's people that are sick, and it's a variant of the flu that doesn't show up on
the flu test,'" the county executive later said.
By mid-January, the novel coronavirus was still just a slightly ominous curiosity to most Americans.
The first U.S. news reports about the virus, published earlier that month, were full of unanswered questions and
mistaken reports from China, including the initial belief that the virus could not be passed between humans.
Life proceeded as normal. San Francisco's international airport was one of two in the United States that had direct
flights to and from Wuhan. But members of the San Francisco Airport Commission, which oversees its operations,
showed no concern throughout January that it was an open portal for travelers from the viral epicenter.
A review of the commission's meetings that month showed that its members never discussed the novel coronavirus.
The government body was instead immersed in its own drama: A restaurateur had been charged with attempting to
give one of the commission members a $5,000 bribe to open a rotisserie chicken joint in the airport.
In the meantime, during the month of January, more than 2,400 passengers flew direct from Wuhan to San Francisco
on China Southern Airlines Flight CZ659, according to a USA TODAY analysis of data on the VariFlight app.
When a member of the airport commission finally did address the virus in early February, it was to urge travelers not
to change their plans for Chinese New Year, a holiday during which people often traveled abroad to visit their families.
"I think it's important for us to continue these celebrations knowing that professionals and government are really
taking the right precautions," commissioner Malcolm Yeung said at the time.
The dynamics make the Bay Area a good case study for how the virus was allowed in unchecked.
On Jan. 19, tens of thousands of fans packed Levi's Stadium in Santa Clara for a major sports event: The NFL's
conference championship game between the hometown San Francisco 49ers and the Green Bay Packers. The winner
would go to the Super Bowl.
At the time, most Americans knew relatively little about the novel coronavirus. The Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention hadn't announced any cases in the United States.
Fans flew in from all over the country to attend the game. Masks and social distancing were not yet part of everyday
life.
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 4 頁，共 16 頁
12/7/2021 下午 11:21
Besides the few hours spent in the open-air stadium, fans stayed at hotels, ate at restaurants and shopped at
stores in the surrounding Santa Clara County, population 1.8 million.
It's impossible to draw a straight line from an event like this to a coronavirus outbreak without contact tracing, a
non-factor at the time. But around the area, there were deaths unattributed to COVID-19 that seem suspicious in
hindsight. Like a senior living home resident — stricken with symptoms including a persistent fever — whose
family was stunned by her sudden decline.
Or the previously healthy 57-year-old woman who collapsed in her kitchen.
County health officials assured residents they had no reason to worry about COVID-19, even as coroners listed
causes of deaths as "pending," sometimes for months.
On the same day as the championship game, a 98-year-old woman named Marjorie Waggoner lay in a hospice bed
at a senior living center 14 miles away in San Jose, with a cold towel folded over her forehead as a measure
against the fever that had plagued her for more than a week.
When her daughter Darryl Ospring took a photo of her that day, Waggoner was unconscious, scrawny and hollow-
eyed. It was a dramatic change from how she looked less than two months earlier, in a photo Ospring took around
Christmas.
Waggoner, who her kids said always seemed decades younger than she was, wore carefully coiffed short curly hair,
a cheesy holiday sweater, a necklace made of bells, and a big, childlike grin. She suffered from Alzheimer's and
had been in hospice for a year following a series of falls, but she was faring so well that administrators were
considering returning her to normal care.
But on Jan. 8, Waggoner was tired and had no appetite. Within a few days, she had developed a cough, and then a
fever, and her condition rapidly spiraled from there. She died on Jan. 22.
Ospring was surprised by the cause listed on the death certificate – "complications from neurodegenerative
disease" – given that her mother's nurse had told her before she died that her chief ailment was her persistent
fever.
Waggoner was not autopsied, and Ospring honored her request to be cremated, even if it ruined her chance at
ever getting clear answers.
"I was trying to understand what happened to my mother in this small window of time," she said. "It was as if the
Angel of Death just came in and ushered her out."
Unbeknownst to Ospring, she was not alone among residents of her county in being blindsided by the sudden
demise of a loved one without a clear medical explanation.
On Feb. 6, a healthy 57-year-old named Patricia Cabello Dowd collapsed dead in her kitchen, the victim of what
was initially declared a ruptured heart.
Twelve days later, 69-year-old Filipino immigrant Arturo Difuntorum Rivera was found partially decomposed in the
home where he lived alone. For months, the medical examiner listed his cause of death as "pending."
Their lives had no obvious overlap, and they occupied different social strata. Dowd was a manager at a
semiconductor company that required regular international travel, though she hadn't been overseas recently.
Rivera was a security guard, who in recent employment at a hotel earned $14 an hour.
Neither was administered a blood test for COVID-19, and officially, there was no chance their deaths were related
to the virus. That's because Santa Clara County's top health officials were unequivocal at the time in declaring that
the virus was not spreading there.
At a public meeting Feb. 19, the county's public health chief, Sara Cody, said there was no reason for residents to
wear masks, cancel gatherings or seek testing for the virus if they were showing symptoms.
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 5 頁，共 16 頁
12/7/2021 下午 11:21
Cody said the county had only two confirmed cases, and both were travelers from Wuhan who had been ordered
to isolate.
"If somebody's not had travel to mainland China, we don't consider them a risk for COVID-19 and don't test,"
said Cody, who projected a message reading:
. On the day of Dowd's death, there was a single novel coronavirus test administered in all of Santa Clara
County, according to county data. On the date of Rivera's death, there were two tests. The county didn't top
1,000 tests a day until late April.
It wasn't until April 22 that the veil was partially lifted on what had been missed months earlier. Chief health
officer Cody held a press conference announcing that posthumous tests had revealed that three deaths months
earlier – those of Dowd, Rivera and a 70-year-old Filipino man named Rolando Olaguer – were actually due to
COVID-19.
Cody called them "iceberg tips" of an unseen outbreak. Dowd became the earliest confirmed casualty of the
virus in the United States, pre-dating a Seattle-area death on Feb. 28.
For county executive Smith, the revelation of early COVID-19 deaths made for a painful confirmation that his
county's policies had allowed residents to unknowingly infect and kill each other. He said his greatest regret was
trusting the CDC's guidance that there was no need for testing unless a person had symptoms and recent travel
to Wuhan. Similar frustrations were expressed by health officials around the U.S. who felt the CDC, previously
considered the world's premier health agency, had failed the country due to egregious missteps and
misinformation.
"I firmly believe that if the federal government had dealt with this appropriately, that many, many hundreds of
thousands of Americans would not have died," Smith said.
He's thought back to those conversations with his wife in December, during which she told him about patients
who had flu-like symptoms but tested negative for the flu. (Smith's wife, who works for a private corporation,
declined to be interviewed, citing medical privacy concerns.)
He now suspects that those patients had COVID-19, and that the virus has been circulating in his county since
December. It's a theory supported by academic research suggesting that the virus was in the U.S. then,
including a UCLA study that revealed a major spike in patients with coughs and acute respiratory failure in the
final month of 2019.
***
At the same time COVID-19 was spreading unseen through northern California, it was gaining a similar foothold
in other regions throughout the country.
For Sevil Dungill in Chicago, his family's battle – and to an extent his city's – with the virus began with thin-
crust pizza and embraces of condolence from an old family friend.
It was Feb. 28, the night before the celebration of Dungill's late sister, and the friend brought him a pie from
Home Run Inn.
They sat close together and, as they reached for slices of pizza, they lingered on everything but the novel
coronavirus. Following the deaths of Dungill's sister and mother, the friend seemed to understand he could use a
few-hour respite from talk of sickness.
Dungill's friend wasn't married and had no children. Instead he filled his life with extended families: his own,
and those of which he was an honorary member. Every Thanksgiving he stopped by to visit the Dungills, and he
called Sevil's elderly parents on their birthdays every year.
Dungill's friend had recently had a little scare with the virus. He had briefly lost his senses of taste and smell.
The friend, who USA TODAY is not naming because he declined to be interviewed, had been golfing in Arizona,
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 6 頁，共 16 頁
12/7/2021 下午 11:21
where there were a handful of confirmed cases.
He knew the loss of those senses was a symptom. But his doctor prescribed him a steroid and assured him it
was just his asthma acting up.
By the time Dungill's friend hugged him goodbye, saying he'd see him at his sister's celebration the next day,
whatever bug that seemed to have been bothering him was gone except for a mild case of the sniffles.
***
Less than two weeks later, at around 7 a.m. on March 11, Dungill sat in the emergency room waiting area of
the Advocate Christ Medical Center.
Six others were also there seeking medical attention.
Dungill's illness had started about a week after his sister's celebration. He had been at his office when, while
reaching for a sweater, he realized he was freezing, while his eyes and forehead were burning.
"Hey, if a miracle happens, I'll be at work tomorrow," Dungill announced to his boss after toggling on his out-
of-office email message. "Otherwise, I'm out sick."
He made it back to his office after a couple of days off, but his fever persisted. His co-workers commented on
how terrible he looked.
When it hurt to breathe, Dungill relented and had his wife drop him off at the emergency room.
The admitting medical personnel appeared unconcerned that his symptoms were related to the novel
coronavirus. Though they gave Dungill a mask, none of the nurses or doctors wore any personal protective
equipment themselves.
They told Dungill they couldn't check for novel coronavirus. At the time, the CDC was only advising tests in
cases that fit narrow parameters, such as if the person had traveled to mainland China.
However, because the doctors were concerned about blood clotting, they had Dungill undergo a CT scan.
The doctor who brought the results to Dungill's hospital bed donned a jarring get-up, now including a face
mask and goggles.
The doctor explained that medical officials in China had reported that X-rayed images of the lungs of those
infected with the novel coronavirus often displayed damage that looked like a starry night or a cobweb.
Dungill's scans showed the same patterns.
Dungill blurted out a number: 845. It was the room in the same hospital where his dad was also laid up.
Cookie Dungill was dealing with his own persistent symptoms that doctors struggled to decipher. He had
initially shown up to the hospital due to constipation causing stomach-clenching discomfort, but he had been
sent home, diagnosed with a bad case of gas.
After the pain got even worse, he called an ambulance to take him back to the hospital. Even though one of
the symptoms of COVID-19 was abdominal pain, the hospital had apparently ruled it out without a test. They
had him share a room with a fellow patient.
Sevil said he urged his doctor to run the same CT scans on his father, and they came back with the similar
telltale pattern. It kicked off chaos in Advocate Christ.
Nurses and doctors who had treated both Dungill men without protection were sent home. According to a
later medical report, Cookie's "12 attending nurses were also tested and were positive for COVID-19 and
quarantined."
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 7 頁，共 16 頁
12/7/2021 下午 11:21
A spokesperson for Advocate Christ said they couldn't comment directly on this case, but that their staff
"consistently followed CDC guidance, which evolved as public health experts learned more about the virus
and its transmission," and that they required masks within the hospital starting March 31.
The doctors ultimately kept Cookie hospitalized but sent Sevil to the waiting area so his wife could pick him
up and take him home.
It was 11:44 p.m., about 17 hours after Sevil had first arrived at the hospital. The room was now crowded
with patients with symptoms just like his: red eyes and dry coughs and painful-sounding wheezes.
Everybody had been given masks.
Sevil again took a tally. He stopped counting at 80.
***
The scientist Benhur Lee spent the first few months of 2020 trying to get people to fathom the severity of
the virus already coursing through the country.
In mid-February, Lee bought Lysol spray, disinfecting wipes, and – even though the CDC was discouraging
them – medical face masks.
Lee found it reprehensible that the agency was advising Americans against wearing masks and claiming
that they were ineffective when scientists had long considered them a weapon against infection. So Lee
carried with him a bag of masks and handed them out to strangers on the streets and subways of New
York City.
He persuaded the doormen of his building to erect a plexiglass barrier between their desks and the lobby.
He tried to convince colleagues – who were all scientists – that they were underestimating the virus. He
joined a few dozen scientists who wrote a letter to New York City Mayor Bill De Blasio urging him to close
schools.
Lee's public health tweets got him branded as an alarmist. His inbox filled with threats or anti-Asian slurs,
spurring Lee to take a hiatus from Twitter.
And then, in the second week of March – the same week that the World Health Organization declared the
virus to be a pandemic – reality seemed to finally, if only partially, set in for the United States.
In a span of two days, the National Basketball Association suspended its season. Tom Hanks announced
that he had COVID-19. And Trump declared a national emergency while banning many Europeans from
entering the United States, adding to a partial ban on some foreign nationals who had visited China.
Lee's employer, Mount Sinai, closed all biology labs, except for those doing research related to COVID-19.
Lee pivoted to making an ingredient to test people's blood for the virus.
The emergency declaration was, in the estimation of international scientists, long overdue, coming six
weeks after the WHO had already declared the virus to be a global public health emergency.
Americans around the country would soon enter lockdowns. It was a fearful and painful moment, but also
one where the damage from previous inaction was not yet set, said Ranney, the doctor and professor. She
said that the federal government could have attempted to catch up on infrastructures for testing, contact
tracing, and distributing PPE.
"But we didn't," she said.
Easter: 27,342 deaths
On March 17, two men hustled into a nearly-empty rest stop in Maryland. Four hours into their 1,200-mile
drive from New York to Florida, they realized they weren't going to make it on sandwiches and PowerBars
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 8 頁，共 16 頁
12/7/2021 下午 11:21
alone, and stopped to fortify with Wendy's cheeseburgers.
One of the men was middle-aged and svelte. The other was more than two decades older, hobbled but
still sprightly, with an oxygen tank piped to his nose and slung over his shoulder like a school bag. They
wore face masks weeks before the CDC recommended them, and latex gloves.
As they exited the rest stop for the highway, Tom Kirdahy, then 56, and Terrence McNally, 81, felt safer
with each mile they put between themselves and New York. It was as if they could feel the virus
receding behind them.
They were near the front of a great informal migration southward from the New York City area.
While other countries instituted national lockdown orders to freeze citizens and the virus in place, the
United States had only localized, and relatively lax, versions of such edicts. Americans responded by
moving more than ever.
McNally fled New York with husband Kirdahy because he had only three-quarters of a lung left and was
terrified the virus would make quick work of him.
The couple's history together had another pandemic as a backdrop. In 1995, Kirdahy, an attorney
representing those infected with HIV and AIDS, was transfixed in a Broadway theater as he watched a
gay male character kiss a purple scar on the chest of another.
In Kirdahy's view, society had decided that eradicating the AIDS epidemic was not a priority because
those it was killing, mostly gay men, were considered no great loss.
He had held the hands of many gay men as they died without the presence of family members who
were afraid of infection or disdainful of their sexuality.
So attending "Love! Valour! Compassion!" written by McNally, whom Kirdahy then only knew as a famed
playwright, was "like being in church," he said.
It was the story of eight gay men on vacation together, including one, played by Nathan Lane, who
kissed the AIDS lesion of another. Kirdahy and his companions at the theater, all of whom worked on the
AIDS front lines or were infected with the virus, wept and hugged each other.
Kirdahy, a lifelong theater buff, met McNally six years later after inviting him to join a panel of famed
gay playwrights he organized in the Hamptons, New York. They bonded over a shared familiarity with
AIDS. Two of McNally's previous partners had died of the virus, and the playwright had seen firsthand
the isolation suffered by its victims in their last moments.
They married in 2003, with Kirdahy warning that he wasn't going to shelve his ambition and become
"Mrs. McNally." He ultimately left his law practice to become one of the most prolific theater producers
on Broadway and London's West End, racking up armfuls of theater awards to rival those of his
husband.
But a diagnosis only months after they had started dating injected their relationship with a perpetually
fleeting quality. McNally's former three-pack-a-day smoking habit had stricken him with lung cancer.
Surgery left him with a quarter of his right lung and only half of his left. For decades he was in and out
of the hospital, including with potentially life-ending bouts of pneumonia.
McNally made light of it. When he and Kirdahy bought a vacation apartment in Sarasota, Florida, in
2017, McNally predicted he would die there. "I know how this story ends," he joked.
And in June 2019, when he was awarded a Tony for lifetime achievement, he accepted it with his oxygen
tank attached and told the crowd: "Not a moment too soon."
During the first weeks of March, when it became clear that New York City was usurping the Seattle area
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 9 頁，共 16 頁
12/7/2021 下午 11:21
as a national epicenter of coronavirus, they made hasty plans to drive to the apartment in Florida
until its spread blew over.
At a roadside motel room in North Carolina, they napalmed every surface with Clorox and Lysol. In
Georgia the next day, lunch was sandwiches handed off between latex-covered fingers at a Starbucks
drive-through.
By dusk on the 18th, they were on their balcony rocking chairs in Sarasota, watching the sky turn a
bruised pink over the Gulf of Mexico. McNally's health had worsened, as he had grown weaker and
short of breath. But he preferred sipping seltzer with his husband than more time in a hospital.
On the evening of March 20, McNally said, for the first time in their relationship: "I want to talk about
dying."
What followed was a long conversation, ranging from nuts-and-bolts estate planning to spiritual
matters.
"We talked about family and friends and art and nature and gratitude," Kirdahy said. "A lot about
gratitude."
At 9:21 the next morning, Kirdahy called 911 to report that his husband was coughing up blood.
***
Five days before Kirdahy's 911 call, Cookie Dungill called Sevil from his Chicago hospital room with a
sudden concern.
Cookie couldn't remember if he had paid his bills that month. He asked his son to head over to his
house and make sure he was up to date on his gas and lights.
Sevil had for the last week been suffering an odyssey of severe symptoms from his own bout of
COVID-19. He isolated on the first floor of his home, wearing a mask and leaving the second floor to
his teenage son and wife, who brought him trays of food and stayed six feet away.
He had pneumonia, diarrhea and such severe night sweats that he had to get up in the middle of the
night to change his soaked shirt.
But because he didn't want his dad to worry about his own poor health, he agreed to check on his
bills. He dragged himself out to his car, made it to his father's house and slumped in front of the
computer with Cookie on the phone.
It took them 21/2 hours to puzzle through usernames and passwords to ascertain that Cookie had in
fact paid his bills before he was hospitalized. They wheezed with laughter at their own ineptitude.
"Dad, don't worry," Sevil said. "We're going to make it."
Cookie called again a few days later, but this time his son couldn't pick up. He was on the other line
with an official from the CDC, who was pumping him with detailed questions about his movements
and interactions in the previous two weeks.
The official wanted to know everything about the pizza dinner Sevil shared with his friend. He wanted
to know who was in what rooms of the church the next day, who shook hands and hugged, and who
ate from the buffet.
The health agency was following a cluster of Chicago cases that hinged on a single event: Angeli's
Joyous Celebration. The CDC was in the midst of declaring it one of the country's earliest and most
severe coronavirus spreading events, likely infecting at least 16 people.
And at its center was a single individual, Sevil's friend, whom the CDC believed had brought the virus
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 10 頁，共 16 頁
12/7/2021 下午 11:21
from Arizona. The friend had gone to a birthday party a few days after the funeral and apparently
spread the virus to family members, according to the CDC. The virus then spread further when
those family members went to sermon at a packed church, complete with a collection plate as a
possible vector.
Even without the call from the health official, Sevil's vicinity to the epicenter of the spread of the
virus in Chicago was already clear to him.
On March 16, his friend's sister died. A warm, boisterous woman known for singing in church, she
was the first official novel coronavirus death in Illinois. His friend lost another sister to the virus
less than two weeks later.
When Sevil got off the phone with the contact tracer, he went to call Cookie back at the hospital.
But his father was by then unconscious, having been put on a ventilator.
Sevil later learned from his sister Gina the words that were among his last.
Cookie had called her to say the hospital staff was urging him to go on the ventilator not because
he needed it yet, but because he was experiencing labored breathing and the staff didn't want to
have run out of them when he did need one.
It was a reasoning common earlier in the pandemic that medical experts now regret, following
studies showing that ventilators were overused and might have contributed to a higher death rate.
Gina encouraged him to follow the doctors' recommendations, optimistic that it would help him
recover. Though he agreed, she later said she could hear the fear in his voice.
"I don't want to die," he told her.
***
USA TODAY shared with Ranney, the emergency physician and Brown University professor, the
stories of both the Dungills in Chicago and the ailing playwright McNally's sojourn to Florida.
Ranney said that the thread that ran through both of their cases was that they had been failed by
the government. A dearth of testing, medical equipment, and sound scientific guidance had
abandoned them, like thousands of other Americans, to fumble alone through infection with a
deadly virus.
Even if the government had handled the pandemic well, Ranney said, the virus still would have
ripped a deadly course through the country.
"But it would've provided guidance to people like that man on what to do," she said, referring to
McNally. "It would have allowed him to get a test. And it would have kept people from having that
abject fear that led them to flee, and to bring the virus with them."
After his husband, Kirdahy, called 911 to report that he was coughing up blood, McNally was taken
to a Sarasota hospital. He was isolated and, within a couple of days, put on a ventilator. After a
COVID-19 test came back positive and his oxygen levels dipped dangerously, Kirdahy made the
decision to take him off of the ventilator.
Kirdahy's promise to his husband that he'd be holding his hand while he died weighed heavily on
him. He asked the doctors whether he could enter his hospital room, and they allowed him.
"I'm one of the lucky ones," Kirdahy said of being able to say goodbye. He would later test positive
for virus antibodies, suggesting he was an asymptomatic carrier.
Independence Day: 130,127 deaths
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 11 頁，共 16 頁
12/7/2021 下午 11:21
There was a window of opportunity in early spring — before Americans were dug intractably into
separate trenches, before wearing a face mask had somehow become a defining political issue,
and militia members were caught allegedly plotting to kidnap the Michigan governor over
lockdown orders — when the country could have unified in order to beat back the virus.
"People were willing to listen to public health officials, and they were willing to take
precautions," Ranney said. "We squandered that."
Part of the problem was the contradictory messages coming from government officials. The CDC
recommended masks in early spring after months of advising against them, and elected leaders
clashed over state and local rules — like whether to close Georgia's beaches — in the absence of
a clear national edict.
Such at-odds approaches made it feel like safety measures were the whims of public officials,
often determined by their political alignment.
The deepening political entrenchment was led by the president. Trump mocked face coverings
even after his government recommended them. He publicly undermined Dr. Anthony Fauci, the
government's top infectious disease expert. He called COVID-19 the "China virus" in spite of
increased attacks against Asian Americans. And he made an axiom of declaring that the cure —
lockdowns recommended by top members of his own national health team — was worse than
the virus itself.
The division thrust into the spotlight government doctors, the kind of career public servants
whose names the average constituent might never otherwise learn.
Scott Harris, Alabama's state health officer, said he decided to go into public health after two
decades in his private practice in Decatur observing how illnesses hit his Black patients harder.
"If public health exists for one reason it's to promote health equity," said Harris, a soft-spoken
physician.
Harris encountered the politicization immediately after his state had its first official case, on
March 13. Alabamians in his inbox challenged his counting of "presumed" cases, which follow a
positive test, versus cases that the CDC reviewed and confirmed.
Later that month, Harris's staff debated how to classify one of the state's first deaths involving a
positive test for COVID-19. The decedent was a young person who had a stroke while infected
with the virus. In a deeply-red state under a Republican governor, Kay Ivey, Harris said his staff
ultimately reported it as "death by stroke, in a person who also had Covid."
"And then, within a couple months, it became clear that's one way people with COVID die,"
Harris later said.
"At that time there was all this pressure — well still is, this pressure," Harris said. "These
pressures to minimize what's actually going on, and people were hyper-alert to try to make sure
we counted our cases correctly."
The hostility continued after the governor issued a stay-at-home order on April 3, in response to
a crisis of overwhelmed hospital beds, infected health-care workers and a rising death count in
nursing homes.
Emailers lectured him on states' rights and personal liberty, and sent Benjamin Franklin's
Revolutionary War cartoon reading, "Join, or Die." Even when email called him a dictator, Harris
looked to see if they contained legitimate questions, and forwarded those messages to his staff
so the experts could educate them.
Others explicitly threatened him. "I'm going to show up at your house, and you better watch out
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 12 頁，共 16 頁
12/7/2021 下午 11:21
because I know where you live," one person wrote.
The state gave Harris an around-the-clock security detail and a ballistic vest. They told him to
fling it on and lock his door if he heard a loud noise.
Harris's experiences were not unique: State health officers around the country experienced
similar treatment, with hundreds facing threats or resigning.
***
Ivey's change in policy made Alabama one of the first states to lift restrictions following
encouragement from Trump, who by mid-April had called for states to reopen their
economies.
After the Alabama governor gave up the lectern to Harris, he struck a markedly different
tone. His mask down around his chin, Harris spoke soberly about data emerging in Alabama,
as it was throughout the country, that showed that the virus disproportionately impacted
Black and Hispanic Americans. Black Alabamians represented a quarter of the state but half of
its COVID-19 deaths to that point.
The decision to reopen most of Alabama may have been welcome to many residents,
including business owners. To Linda Gilchrist, a nurse who works at a Montgomery senior
home, it was devastating. After finishing a shift — followed by a lengthy clothes-washing and
showering routine so as to not infect her family — she caught Ivey's press conference on
television.
Dozens of Gilchrist's patients had died from the virus, and she had stood in a meeting that
day where stakeholders discussed getting more patients into the rehab unit. In Montgomery,
coronavirus cases had been steadily rising. Ivey's policy change certainly wasn't based on the
state having flattened the curve.
"Oh my God," Gilchrist thought to herself. "Why are we doing this?"
William Boyd, a lifelong resident of deeply segregated, majority-Black Montgomery, thought
he had an explanation. Boyd had lost six relatives or close friends to the virus, including his
brother. He saw the growing apathy toward the virus in Alabama as a result of policy-makers
learning that Black people were most vulnerable. The CDC had just come out with that
information on April 8.
The hospital where Boyd's brother died had a policy allowing loved ones access if they were
near death, and he described sharing a waiting area with those who were about to say
goodbye to a patient. "It was an ugly sight, and I saw all Black people," Boyd said.
Boyd addressed the Montgomery City Council in June when they considered a mask mandate.
"The question on the table is whether Black lives matter," he said. The mandate failed after
the eight-member council voted mostly along racial lines, Black members for the mandate
and white members against it.
The next month, the Montgomery council members reversed themselves and passed the
mandate. Ivey also revisited the statewide mask issue during another press conference,
roughly six weeks after the one where she'd cracked the joke about her hairdresser. Harris
was back at her side.
Cases in Alabama had more than doubled in the month before the announcement, to more
than 60,000, adding more than 1,100 cases per day on average.
***
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 13 頁，共 16 頁
12/7/2021 下午 11:21
The unique rub of the novel coronavirus is that attempts to defeat it tend to open up
another front of misery. Extended lockdowns deliver their own world of grief, as the
millions of newly unemployed Americans can attest. The tug-of-war between industry and
public health has often resulted in public policy that keeps the economy afloat at the
expense of the health, and often lives, of those with the least agency.
Nowhere has that been more clear than in the federal government's handling of the
meatpacking crisis.
In mid-April, Minnesota hog farmer Greg Boerboom heard from a representative of
Smithfield Foods that the meat conglomerate had to delay its weekly purchase of several
semi loads of his animals due to illness at the company's Sioux Falls plant.
But Boerboom wasn't worried the disruption would extend any longer than a few days. The
meat industry had eradicated uncertainty a long time ago. Boerboom contracts with the
few multinational corporations that control the meat processing industry. It's a departure
from the system he learned as a young man on his father's farm, where they'd haul 30
hogs at a time behind their '59 Chevrolet three hours away to the stockyards in St. Paul to
search for buyers.
Critics deride the ruthless efficiency of the business but Boerboom, 59, sees progress. "We
can glamorize the good old days," he said, "but the fact of the matter is they weren't that
glamorous."
But the drawbacks of the modern meatpacking model began to show when a
representative for Tyson Foods also called Boerboom to say COVID-19 cases were forcing
the temporary closure of the company's plant in Waterloo, Iowa.
The two plants represented roughly 60% of Boerboom's business. And as a month came
and went, and the plants remained closed, his stock of roughly 100,000 overgrown hogs
crowded against each other in his barns. Boerboom had to consider ways to quickly reduce
his inventory, including whether to execute a large number of them with a handgun.
His colleagues were doing it, those who weren't pumping carbon monoxide into their barns
to kill thousands of their hogs. All across the country, hog farmers faced the same grim
scenario.
***
The virus had forced farmer Greg Boerboom to revert to his dad's old way of doing
business, selling a few hogs here or there and stocking the butcher shops on nearby Main
Streets. But Boerboom isn't the nostalgic type. When the Smithfield and Tyson buyers
returned in late May, he rejoiced and credited Trump's executive order.
The order was a boon for those major corporations, which as it turns out were never at risk
for a severe meat shortage. In fact, a significant portion of the hogs Boerboom sold to
Smithfield and Tyson likely ended up not in American kitchens, but in Chinese ones.
Market data showed that during the period when meatpacking executives were warning
that the food supply chain was breaking, they were exporting millions of tons of meat
overseas – even more than in previous years.
The federal government had prioritized the production of meat over the safety of low-paid,
mostly-immigrant workers. In the months following Trump's executive order, plant
operators claimed to have implemented safety guards such as plexiglass barriers and
mandatory masks. But there was little federal oversight monitoring those measures.
COVID-19 cases in the plants skyrocketed, and often so did the case counts of their
surrounding communities.
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 14 頁，共 16 頁
12/7/2021 下午 11:21
As of September, there would be more than 200 deaths among meatpacking workers
who had contracted the virus.
Boerboom thinks the media has mostly ignored the real story, which is post-traumatic
stress and depression he predicts will linger with hog farmers. "The big story is going to
be the financial and emotional drain to the farming community in small-town America,"
he said.
But he says Trump deserves gratitude for returning the business to the status quo even
in the midst of a pandemic. "I think that's what saved our industry," Boerboom said. "If
he had not done that, we would be out of business today."
Thanksgiving: 263,456 deaths
In early April, Gina Jere drove to a cremation center where a man in full protective gear
dropped into her trunk a triple-bagged Hefty containing Cookie Dungill's watch, glasses,
cell phone and a container of his ashes.
When her brother Sevil Dungill learned that their father had died, he was still in the
throes of his own severe sickness, isolated on the first floor of his house.
He kept six feet away as he told his teenage son about Cookie's passing.
"We're not going to grieve right now," said Dungill, who was terrified of infecting his wife
and son. "Because grieving makes you weak."
Dungill finally left his home after nearly two months of sickness in isolation. He emerged
to a changed world full of face masks and strange new rituals at the supermarket.
Protests and riots then followed and brought shattered storefronts to his Chicago
neighborhood.
Like other families that have lost loved ones this year, it's hard to predict when, if ever,
the Dungills will be able to properly grieve. There was no funeral or memorial for Cookie
Dungill and, considering the results of the family's last gathering to mark a death, there
probably never will be.
For Sevil Dungill, the lack of closure concerning his father's death has also consumed his
perspective on the other family members he lost in 2020. Like Darryl Ospring's fixation
on her mother's January death in the Bay Area, Dungill suspects that COVID-19 was
responsible for the deaths of his sister in January and his mother in February.
Before his family's saga with the illness, he accepted without doubt that their deaths
were a result of cancer.
But he has since thought back on their sudden declines. His sister Angeli was put under
a hospital ventilator before dying, according to her death certificate, of acute respiratory
distress syndrome, pneumonia and metastatic lung cancer. His mother's official cause of
death was aspiration pneumonia and congestive heart failure.
The lung-related conditions are hallmarks of COVID-19 deaths. But Dungill will never
know for sure, since both women were cremated and not autopsied.
Contributing: Matt Wynn, Dian Zhang and Brett Murphy
Artist Suzanne Firstenberg walks through an installation on the DC Armory Parade
Ground on , Oct. 23 in Washington, DC. Titled "IN AMERICA: How Could This Happen,"
each flag represents a life lost to COVID-19 in the U.S.
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 15 頁，共 16 頁
12/7/2021 下午 11:21
Title
Wasted Chances: It may not have started here,
but the novel coronavirus became a US tragedy
Publication title
The Tennessean; Nashville, Tenn.
First page
A.1
Publication year
2020
Publication date
Dec 16, 2020
column
The American Virus
Section
News
Publisher
Gannett Co Inc
Place of publication
Nashville, Tenn.
Country of publication
United States, Nashville, Tenn.
Publication subject
General Interest Periodicals--United States
ISSN
10536590
Source type
Newspaper
Language of publication
English
Document type
News
ProQuest document ID
2470294839
Document URL
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https:
//www.proquest.com/newspapers/wasted-
chances/docview/2470294839
/se-2?accountid=10345
Copyright
Copyright 2020 - THE TENNESSEAN - All Rights
Reserved.
Last updated
2020-12-16
Database
Global Newsstream
Jack Gruber/USA TODAY
Oliver Wilding, center, steps toward the tombstone of his mother, Barbara Wilding, on
April 22. Wilding died from COVID-19 at the age of 81. Family members of Barbara
watched her burial from their vehicles at the Louisville Memorial Cemetery.
Alton Strupp/Louisville Courier Journal
Copyright 2020 - THE TENNESSEAN - All Rights Reserved.
Bibliography
Citation style: APA 7th (basic) - No Case Changes (No Title Casing), DOI: empty
Wasted Chances: It may not have started here, but the novel coronavirus became a
US tragedy. (2020, Dec 16). The Tennessean https://falcon.lib.csub.edu
/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/wasted-chances/docview
/2470294839/se-2?accountid=10345
Database copyright © 2021 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved. Terms and Conditions
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 16 頁，共 16 頁
12/7/2021 下午 11:21
