Find a copy
Abstract
document 1 of 1
Full Text | Newspaper
Forever foreigners
Forever foreigners. (2021, Feb 08). Dominion Post https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https:
//www.proquest.com/newspapers/forever-foreigners/docview/2487005515/se-2?accountid=10345
Check OneSearch for Availability
http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&
genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Aanznews&atitle=Forever+foreigners&title=Dominion+Post&issn=11759488&
date=2021-02-08&volume=&issue=&spage=16&au=&isbn=&jtitle=Dominion+Post&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric
/&rft_id=info:doi/
None available.
Full Text
Migrants of colour have often felt like unwelcome outsiders in New Zealand, no matter how long they have lived
here. Mandy Te reports.
As a group of taiko drummers performed at a festival in Porirua, Debbie Donnelly remembers a stranger turning
to her and saying, "They're not like us."
Donnelly was the wrong person to pick out of the crowd. For most of her life, she has thought deeply about the
duality of her identity.
When she was younger, people would tell her she had the best of both worlds when it came to being Japanese
and Pakeha. At the time, she didn't know what that meant.
Sitting in her Kapiti home, there's a glint in her eyes as she thinks about her identity, racism, and her mother,
Setsuko.
Setsuko, from the city of Takehara, near Hiroshima, met Mick, a Pakeha man, in Japan through a Catholic priest.
She moved to Wellington in the 1950s, marrying Mick at St Anne's Catholic Church in Newtown. The couple
briefly lived in Masterton before moving to Wellington.
It was in the capital city that Setsuko thrived as an interpreter, meeting prime ministers and the Queen. She
also became a co-founder of the Japanese Society.
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 1 頁，共 7 頁
12/9/2021 下午 10:34
Mick was supportive of Setsuko as she pursued her interests.
When it came to the racism, Donnelly says her mother protected her and her siblings from the details, but she
did share anecdotes.
"She felt she was a punching bag for a lot of people [and] a lot of people's frustrations," Donnelly says.
"At the time I could only imagine the culture shock, combined with not knowing the language, not knowing what
people are saying about you, but knowing she wasn't being welcomed."
She believes the racism her mother experienced was linked to anti-Japanese sentiment after the war.
Donnelly's brother, Leo, recalled a moment years after his mother's death when a woman approached him to
apologise for how his mother was treated in Masterton.
"My mother didn't put any blame on anyone, but she was happy to leave, and that was probably because of the
way in which she was spoken about," Leo says.
As children, Donnelly and Leo recall experiencing racist taunts signalling to them that "you're not us".
The advice Leo got from his parents, and from his mother in particular, was about being resilient - she used The
Great Wave off Kanagawa painting as an example.
"It was not what people thought it may mean, which was 'you can't beat the force of nature'; it was the fact you
bow to the wave but you don't go under," Leo says.
"There are some things you can't control but you stay afloat. You work your way up and you work your way
through those situations."
Nowadays, he sees similar attitudes to the ones he encountered when he was younger come up in pockets -
such as how Asian people have been treated during the Covid-19 pandemic.
When it comes to racism, he says, it's about making it clear that it's unacceptable, while also providing support
for people on the receiving end, to help them cope with the emotional impact.
"People act out of ignorance and fear, but it still doesn't make it right."
While Setsuko never shied away from her Japanese roots, she considered New Zealand her home and herself a
Kiwi.
Their mother's experience of feeling like a "punching bag" and feeling unwelcome is not something she went
through alone.
Living under another's roof
New and old migrants have gone through those feelings - stemming from the concept of being treated as
"forever a foreigner". Emeritus Professor Manying Ip has studied the "forever a foreigner" concept for decades,
mainly in connection to Chinese New Zealanders.
Speaking to Chinese New Zealanders, she noted how they felt out of place - as if they didn't belong.
Using a Chinese saying to define the concept, she says it is about people from minority groups feeling as though
they are living under another person's roof.
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 2 頁，共 7 頁
12/9/2021 下午 10:34
It was someone else's place, not theirs, and they would never feel as though they belonged, she says.
University of Auckland senior sociology lecturer Dr David Tokiharu Mayeda says that, when people think about
migrants and what it means to be a migrant, implicit within that are perceptions about migrants of colour.
"It's diverse Pacific communities, Asian communities, Middle Eastern and African communities but it's not
European communities.
"If you're from a European background, you're from a migrant community. Your ancestors may have been
here for a long time, but you're still migrants."
But ancestors of Pakeha migrants brought with them a level of power, enabling them to change the systems
in Aotearoa to focus on economy and profit. This meant other migrant groups were working within the
confines of systems created by European settlers.
Mayeda noticed this feeling of foreignness trickle into his students' work - particularly in those with Asian
backgrounds - when it came to one assignment that required them to write about their lives.
The Asian students who were born here, or moved here when they were young wrote about distancing
themselves from their families, "and they will use this terminology - trying to distance themselves from FOBs
(fresh off the boat)".
More recent Asian migrants wrote about hating themselves and getting depressed about the racial
stereotypes they had started to believe, he says.
Like Asian communities, Pacific communities are extremely diverse - and both umbrella ethnic communities
can face being treated as "forever foreigner", Mayeda says.
In the early stages of the Covid-19 pandemic, East Asians in particular were cast as "virus-spreading foreign
threats", he says. That stereotype then shifted to Aotearoa's Pacific communities in mid-2020.
"In general, however, because Pacific peoples have closer cultural connections to Maori, and geographic
connections to nearby Pacific nations, they tend not to be cast as foreign threats in the same way as Asians.
"Research I've been involved in shows that Pacific peoples are subjected to racism that many Maori
understand - being unfairly suspected as criminogenic, lazy in school and work.
"In contrast, Asians get cast as the distant foreign threats who will take over the economy, housing market
and schools if not kept in check."
He believes it's important for New Zealand to recognise Maori as tangata whenua, and also that anyone who
is not Maori, including Pakeha, comes from a migrant background.
'All they see us as are sports stars and entertainers'
The University of Auckland's Dr Sereana Naepi says it was "very telling" how quickly and easily the rumours
targeting Auckland's Pasifika communities over the August Covid-19 cluster were believed.
One rumour suggested that a woman from a Pasifika family contracted the virus by sneaking into a managed
isolation facility to see a man.
This fed into the "dusky maiden" trope stemming from colonial times, which sexualised and objectified Pacific
women.
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 3 頁，共 7 頁
12/9/2021 下午 10:34
"People latched on to this fake story of criminals and sex," Naepi says.
New Zealand's colonising of the Pacific cemented the colonisers' views of Pacific communities as children to
be taken care of, instead of strong, independent nations capable of caring for themselves.
Colonisers took on an almost paternal role so that Pacific communities were incapable of being seen as a
foreign threat, she adds.
"People are happy to have Pacific communities when they benefit from their labour and cultural capital, but
they're less likely to invest in these communities.
"All they see us as are sports stars and entertainers - in their minds, we have a specific space to fill in New
Zealand society."
And when this wasn't filled? Pacific communities were labelled as people who did not contribute, as
underachievers and criminals, she says.
Gatekeeping who gets to be kept in and out
Grace Gassin, a researcher and curator of Asian New Zealand histories at Te Papa Tongarewa, says "for a
lot of New Zealand's history, there's been a desire to keep New Zealand white for lack of a better way to
put it".
"I guess we're all dealing with the legacies of anti-Chinese discrimination and, broadly, discrimination
against non- whites which happened legislatively, administratively and socially."
Asian migrants had been around during seminal events and there were also instances of solidarity between
Maori and Asian communities - moments often not heard about when New Zealand history is told.
She mentions Minnie Rose Alloo, a woman of Chinese and Scottish ancestry, as an example of this. Her
signature sits neatly on a suffrage petition in 1893. She was 19 at the time of signing, making her too
young to do so.
Gassin says the way some New Zealand history was written makes it seem as if Pakeha were "colonial
mediators".
As the dominant group, they had a central position, which meant they could determine the relationship
between other ethnic groups, she says.
"Pakeha are colonisers here on this land, so it's interesting. You could argue that they're the ultimate
foreigner and migrant in the context of New Zealand history.
"But it's often that dominant group who gets to decide who are the foreigners, and gatekeep who gets to
be kept in and out. They're the ones that get to form a nation's identity."
After the Treaty of Waitangi was signed, people could enter the country, but those who were not British
were considered aliens.
But throughout history, there have been barriers to prevent people - particularly those of colour - from
coming to New Zealand.
In 1881, immigration restrictions were placed on Chinese people, who had to pay a poll tax to enter.
After World War I, German people, Marxists and socialists were restricted from entering New Zealand.
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 4 頁，共 7 頁
12/9/2021 下午 10:34
The 1920 Immigration Restriction Amendment Act, better known as the "White New Zealand Policy",
made it difficult for anyone not British to come to New Zealand till the 1970s. Permission had to be
given by the minister of customs.
Chinese migrants were recruited by the Dunedin Chamber of Commerce to work in the Otago goldfields.
The first 12 men arrived from Australia in 1868 and, by late 1869, more than 2000 Chinese men had
come to the goldfields.
Pacific peoples had four waves of migration, dating from 800 to 1000 years ago. The first wave was the
coming of the Maori. The second and third waves were tied to European colonisation of the Pacific, with
people coming to Aotearoa as trainee teachers, missionaries, sailors, whalers and civil servants.
The fourth wave was linked to migration for economic reasons, with Pacific peoples finding work in the
manufacturing and service sectors after World War II.
African Americans arrived in colonial times, but most of the arrivals from Britain's African colonies in the
1870s were white. In the 1960s, black students came to New Zealand through study programmes.
Immigration rules meant very few black people arrived before the 1990s. In 1991, the government
increased the number of refugees, which saw people from Ethiopia, Rwanda, Somalia, Zimbabwe and
other countries move to New Zealand.
In the late 1800s, people from Lebanon migrated to Dunedin, Wellington and Auckland. Other Middle
Eastern groups that moved to New Zealand were Assyrian Christians and refugees from Iraq and Iran
who arrived in the 1990s.
People from Israel, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Jordan and Bahrain
moved to New Zealand in the 2000s.
People of Indian origin have been coming to New Zealand since the late 18th century, often on British
East India Company ships. In the 1890s, Indian migration increased. Pakeha at the time lumped them
with "Assyrian hawkers", and there were attempts to create laws against hawker activities and to limit
their immigration.
'There's always a bias'
Waitakere Indian Association president Sunil Kaushal says "irrespective of whether you're a first or
second generation, there's always a bias".
"Indians came to New Zealand in the late 18th century and made New Zealand their home, but on the
flip side of it, someone who comes from Europe or America are just seen as Europeans, which is just
'normal Pakeha'."
People did not ask those of European descent where they came from, he says, which led to an
underlying feeling that Indians were not considered Kiwis.
In 2020, the association commissioned a report to understand the economic significance of people of
Indian ethnicity in New Zealand. It found that 240,000 people of Indian descent contributed $10 billion
to the economy in 2019.
That number is astounding, and shows how much people of Indian origin contribute to New Zealand, but
they are still being put in a box and stigmatised, says Kaushal.
"Is it a myth or is it a reality? I think it's a reality, rather than a myth.
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 5 頁，共 7 頁
12/9/2021 下午 10:34
"We are Kiwis. We have given up everything to come here to be in the land of the long white cloud.
This is our home."
'I feel it in myself'
Veena Patel has Fijian Indian and Pakeha roots. Her family moved from Fiji to New Zealand when she
was 4, after a succession of political coups in the 1980s.
When it comes to her cultural background, she says it can feel difficult to fit in or feel a part of either
of them.
It's not one moment or experience that has made her feel that way, but it's something that strikes
her daily.
"When I say my name, people don't recognise me as having my name," she says."It used to make me
feel like I didn't fit in anywhere and I wanted to minimise or hide my difference to fit in with everyone
else and not be seen to be different in any way.
"As I get older and grow more mature, I've been able to negotiate that for myself. My identity has
been a journey for me, and one of discovery, and I've been lucky enough to have my parents to
explore both sides of myself."
Patel says identity goes beyond things such as ethnicity, nationality, gender and where you live.
"Your identity and who you see yourself as, especially for culture, that's something you get to define
for yourself. Once you see that and understand that, it's really liberating . . . It doesn't matter
whether people recognise me as Indian any more, because I feel it in myself."
She feels excited for New Zealand to enter a "new era of maturity in terms of how we think about our
diversity - how we think about integration as a two-way thing".
Having a diverse background should be a source of pride, she says. It's not something that has a
bearing on whether people are Kiwi or not, because it is OK to identify with more than one culture.
CAPTION:
Mick and Setsuko Donnelly on their wedding day in August 1956 and, right, on holiday in Yotsugi,
Japan, in 1955. DONNELLY FAMILY
Setsuko Donnelly with a young Leo and Debbie at Oriental Bay in Wellington. DONNELLY FAMILY
A cartoon by John Collis Blomfield from 1905, showing a stereotyped view of Chinese migrants.
Though recruited to work in the Otago goldfields, they were soon required to pay a poll tax of
[PndStlg]10 to enter, later raised to [PndStlg]100.
Dr David Tokiharu Mayeda says people of Asian descent get cast as foreign threats who will take over
the economy, housing market and schools "if not kept in check".
Veena Patel says identity goes beyond ethnicity, nationality, and gender. "Your identity and who you
see yourself as, that's something you get to define for yourself."
Waitakere Indian Association president Sunil Kaushal says people of Indian origin are stigmatised and
put in a box, despite their growing economic contributions.
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 6 頁，共 7 頁
12/9/2021 下午 10:34
Subject
Racism;
Coronaviruses;
Pandemics;
Disease transmission;
COVID-19;
Asian people
Location
New Zealand
Company / organization
Name:
NAICS:
University of Auckland
611310
Title
Forever foreigners
Publication title
Dominion Post; Wellington, New Zealand
First page
16
Publication year
2021
Publication date
Feb 8, 2021
Section
NEWS
Publisher
Stuff Limited
Place of publication
Wellington, New Zealand
Country of publication
New Zealand, Wellington, New Zealand
Publication subject
General Interest Periodicals--Great Britain
ISSN
11759488
Source type
Newspaper
Language of publication
English
Document type
News
ProQuest document ID
2487005515
Document URL
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https:
//www.proquest.com/newspapers/forever-foreigners/docview
/2487005515/se-2?accountid=10345
Copyright
© Stuff Limited 2020, The Dominion Post
Last updated
2021-12-08
Database
Global Newsstream
Dr Sereana Naepi says Pacific countries are viewed as children to be taken care of, instead of
strong, independent nations capable of caring for themselves.
Grace Gassin, Te Papa's curator of Asian New Zealand Histories, says Asian migrants are all dealing
with the legacies of anti-Chinese discrimination.
© Stuff Limited 2020, The Dominion Post
Bibliography
Citation style: APA 7th (basic) - No Case Changes (No Title Casing), DOI: empty
Forever foreigners. (2021, Feb 08). Dominion Post https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https:
//www.proquest.com/newspapers/forever-foreigners/docview/2487005515/se-2?accountid=10345
Database copyright © 2021 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved. Terms and Conditions
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 7 頁，共 7 頁
12/9/2021 下午 10:34
