Find a copy
Abstract
document 1 of 1
Full Text | Newspaper
THE BLING QUEEN AND HER LITTLE EMPEROR: She's the star of Bling Empire, a new reality show about super-rich Asians living large in LA.
Christine Chiu tells Megan Agnew about plastic surgery, Prince Charles and the pressures of marrying into a Chinese dynasty
THE BLING QUEEN AND HER LITTLE EMPEROR: SHE'S THE STAR OF BLING EMPIRE, A NEW REALITY SHOW ABOUT SUPER-RICH ASIANS LIVING LARGE IN LA. CHRISTINE CHIU TELLS MEGAN AGNEW ABOUT
PLASTIC SURGERY, PRINCE CHARLES AND THE PRESSURES OF MARRYING INTO A CHINESE DYNASTY. (2021, Feb 14). Sunday Times https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers
/bling-queen-her-little-emperor/docview/2488975705/se-2?accountid=10345
Check OneSearch for Availability
http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Aeuropeannews&
atitle=THE+BLING+QUEEN+AND+HER+LITTLE+EMPEROR%3A+SHE%27S+THE+STAR+OF+BLING+EMPIRE%2C+A+NEW+REALITY+SHOW+ABOUT+SUPER-
RICH+ASIANS+LIVING+LARGE+IN+LA.+CHRISTINE+CHIU+TELLS+MEGAN+AGNEW+ABOUT+PLASTIC+SURGERY%2C+PRINCE+CHARLES+AND+THE+PRESSURES+OF+MARRYING+INTO+A+CHINESE+DYNASTY&
title=Sunday+Times&issn=09561382&date=2021-02-14&volume=&issue=&spage=8&au=&isbn=&jtitle=Sunday+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/
None available.
Full Text
Christine Chiu hadn't expected a knock on the bedroom door on her wedding night. The visitor was her new mother-inlaw, whom after a whirlwind engagement she had met for only the first time that day. In her
hands was a "gigantic" book, and what was written inside was also unexpected: proof that her new husband, Dr Gabriel Chiu, a renowned Los Angeles-based plastic surgeon, was "the 24th generation direct
descendant of the Song dynasty".
The suggestion was that Gabriel, king of Beverly Hills' boobs and bottoms, would have been the sovereign of a vast Chinese empire had it not been overthrown in the 13th century. It came as a surprise to
Christine, who was born in Taiwan but grew up in California. She knew little about
ancient Chinese dynasties. Her mother-inlaw took her through hundreds of years of male emperors listed in the book, and their progeny. At the end was her husband's name, followed by an empty space. "It is
very important that you do not let us down," she was told. The family wanted a male heir to continue the line.
Christine, then 24, and Gabriel, 15 years her senior, started trying for a baby emperor at their Bel Air home. But she couldn't get pregnant. They did rounds and rounds of IVF, with different techniques and
different doctors ? the best that money could buy. A decade passed and still there was no heir. "I just saw that empty space I was supposed to fill," Christine says. "That was my job, that is the one thing they
asked of me, that was my value." At family gatherings she was made to sit at the children's table and wash the dishes, all the while harbouring the secret that it was actually her husband who
had fertility problems. She silently "bore his shame" for 11 years. Eventually, in 2018, she gave birth to Gabriel Christian Chiu III, or "Baby G" as they call him. He arrived chubby-cheeked, dressed in Versace and
ready to rule his imaginary kingdom.
Now 38, Christine is one of the stars and producers of Bling Empire, the latest Netflix docuseries to adopt the tried-and-tested formula of following the seemingly vacuous lives and eye-popping consumption of a
group of super-rich friends. The difference is that this show has an all-Asian cast. It's Crazy Rich Asians meets Keeping Up with the Kardashians ? solid gold trash but with layers of cultural intrigue; yes, it's about
cash, cars, clothes and plastic surgery, but it's also about the balance ? and tension ? between therapised, liberal life in LA and east Asian traditions and responsibilities.
"These are stories of infertility, surrogacy, parenthood ? difficult topics across any ethnicity, but set against the backdrop of very traditional eastern expectations there is an additional layer of complexity," says
Christine, speaking from her home office in Bel Air. She says she's dressed in Loro Piana cashmere "sweats", which cost about £1,800 each, but doesn't want to turn on her video. "Nothing glamorous. I'm first a
mom, then a businesswoman, then a personality and producer," she says. "On TV screens Asian faces and perspectives are underrepresented, so the show was an opportunity I couldn't pass up."
Usually dripping in "high jewellery", she is presented as the self-made, ponytailswinging mean girl of the series, the couture queen of Beverly Hills, never shy of putting on an ostentatious show of wealth or
mentioning her (considerable) philanthropic pursuits ? and her acquaintance with the Prince of Wales.
Christine and her husband, who are worth a reported £80 million through their private clinic, Beverly Hills Plastic Surgery, are the main backers of the Prince's Foundation Health & Wellbeing Centre at Dumfries
House in East Ayrshire, Scotland, which uses complementary therapies to help locals with obesity, loneliness and depression. Two of its health lodges are named after none other than Baby G. The same Baby G
who, in one episode of Bling
Empire, is photographed for his preschool admission portrait, at the age of one, dressed in a tuxedo, sitting upright in a miniature sports car as $100 bills rain down.
Christine's nemesis in the show is Anna Shay, 60, a withering matriarch figure to the younger cast members. She's the eccentric daughter of the late arms dealer Edward Shay, whose company was sold by Anna
and her brother to Lockheed Martin for a reported $1.2 billion in cash in 2006.
Shay shops for diamonds as though they are sweets, throws dinner parties as though they are tests of allegiance and sounds lonely ? she met her best friend over the counter of her favourite jewellery house in
Paris. She trusts few people ? particularly not Christine, whom she appears to view as a name-dropping, nouveau riche pretender.
The two are set up as frozen-faced frenemies. In one episode Christine is moved to the wrong end of the dinner table for wearing a diamond necklace that Shay also owns. "I mean, I was seated to the left of
Prince Charles at Buckingham Palace earlier this year," Christine complains. Shay is unfussed. "I do find it odd that she wants to compete with me," she purrs. "But she cannot compete with what I was born into."
"There are certainly discussions on new money versus old money," Christine tells me when I ask about the characters' different attitudes towards wealth. "I'm of a younger generation, so I am more open to
speaking about consumption. But I don't do it in a way of boasting. I know the show is edited in that way, unfortunately, because people are hooked by the bling and the glitz, but for me I look at luxury
consumption as an investment and a preservation of really important pieces of art." She adds: "I hate to say it, but I don't think there's older money than dynastic money."
When pushed, Christine is unsure what proportion of her in-laws' wealth is "dynastically related", but she knows they do "very, very well" in property. Why, then, does the family place so much emphasis on its links
to the Song dynasty? Isn't it all a bit pretentious?
"I don't think anyone really cares about or traces dynasties and I try to downplay that," she says. "But I also don't want to disrespect someone's heritage ? it's just being proud
of where they are from. To me and my husband and our everyday life it has no relevance. What is a big deal is that my husband is a good father, an excellent surgeon and a beautiful human being."
Gabriel Chiu was born in Hong Kong and moved to the US as a child. He has a "traditional" family, very private and "anything but boastful, you would never know they have so much money", Christine says. The
couple met while working at a large medical corporation: he was a senior plastic surgeon, the "star of the company", and she was a vice-president of marketing.
"I thought there was a lot of untapped potential," she says. "I was looking at him, thinking, this is a man who clearly cares about his craft and his work more than he cares about the profit, but I think in the right
setting we can really have it all. We can give patients the most elevated experience and he can be recognised for it."
After their marriage in 2006 Christine decided to set up a plastic surgery practice, with herself as the managing director and Gabriel as lead surgeon. "He was my first employee," she says. They launched their
clinic using funds from Gabriel's family as well as money of their own. "For a long time his family called it his very expensive hobby. They were very much on board, no expense was spared. The truth is, we didn't
make a profit [at the beginning] but it didn't matter because every morning he woke up and he was excited, approaching every patient like it was his canvas. I mean, he had a bottomless account to tap into to
make it the very best it can be and, in the journey of doing that, things caught fire and we grew."
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 1 頁，共 3 頁
12/9/2021 下午 11:06
Christine herself comes from a "very financially comfortable background". Her parents were successful in business, moving from Taiwan to California when she was five. She struggled at school, speaking
only Mandarin at first. "There was a class that taught Hispanic kids how to speak English, so I joined that," she says. She had to learn Spanish in order to learn English. "I was very much made fun of. I've had my
fair share of bullying. I went to three high schools and it wasn't easy."
She says her parents wanted to keep her grounded, emphasising the importance of having a job. "My husband and I grew up in
affluency, and both sides went out of their way to make sure we built a strong work ethic." She had a trust fund, but was cut offfrom it because she "didn't do exactly what my parents wanted me to do at some
point". She is guarded on this and won't say exactly why. That's all ancient history, however, as today the Chius' clinic is "enormously profitable". With more than 35,000 patients it's the go-to place for celebrities
and the super-rich. She won't name names.
Covid, she says, has caused a "Zoom boom" in plastic surgery. The more people are looking at their faces on a screen, the more treatments they want. "People are putting the money they would have spent on a
big vacation back into their body. Before, they would chip away at their bucket list of things to get done, but during Covid
people are just getting it all done at once because they can recover at home and hide."
The clinic offers a "mommy makeover", which can include a breast lift, liposuction and tummy tuck. "In many cases", reads the website, "women who have taken perfect care of their bodies feel trapped in their
sagging or stretched skin as their self-confidence diminishes."
There is an argument, I suggest, that plastic surgeons reinforce people's insecurities rather than curing them. There is nothing more validating ? and crushing ? than someone in a white coat telling you that you
have bingo wings and a flat arse. "There are a lot of surgeons who would just do it all ? take the money and just do it.
With Dr Chiu, he is definitely on the more natural side. He will talk people out of surgeries," she says.
I ask about her own list of regular treatments. "Ironically I'm very needlephobic," she admits. Her husband had to hire an anaesthesiologist to sedate her just
so she could have Botox. Now, though, they have a machine called a Pro-Nox. "It's nitrous oxide," she says ? laughing gas ? "and I breathe into it, then he [Gabriel] puts in some Botox and filler."
Instagram is her playground. On it she leads, by her own admission, a "frivolous, materialistic" lifestyle. As a child she was not allowed dolls, only books ? "just black and white and ink for me" ? because her
parents wanted her to focus on her studies. In traditional Asian culture, she says, when a woman gets married she leaves her old family and joins a new one. "My late twenties were like a new chapter for me. It
was my chance to relive all these suppressed little girl fantasies I had. And I really went for it."
She began bingeing on couture and today tries to buy one piece from every fashion show she attends ? sometimes costing six figures apiece. However, although she looked as if she were living the Californian
dream on Instagram, behind the scenes she was going through increasingly invasive IVF treatment, "burning out" her body.
"I can see how [my husband's parents] were looking at my life from the outside and thinking, this girl doesn't want to be a mom, she just wants to wear her designer clothing and travel." The pressure was building
on her to have a son, with her in-laws blaming her body and health. "In the eastern Asian culture you don't talk back [to elders]. It's just how it goes. So I would say, 'I'm sorry, I'm trying, I will do better, I
promise.' " Didn't she mind carrying the can for her husband's infertility ? an issue that she says stemmed from "a medical problem he had from when he was very young" ? for 11 years? "I really don't know what
my in-laws' response would have been if I'd said it wasn't me. I don't know if they would have accepted it. It's a very east Asian expectation for the wife to protect the husband and to protect the family. It was my
duty and my role. I wasn't OK with it, but I knew that's what I had to do."
At one point the couple considered using a sperm donor and smuggling a biologically illegitimate heir past Gabriel's family. "I remember looking at these photos of donors and thinking, could this pass off[as
Gabriel]? Then I remember thinking, they would DNA the baby, there's no way we could pull this off."
Christine thought she was going to take the secret of her husband's fertility issues with her to the grave, until it "blurted" out of her mouth as the Bling Empire cameras were rolling. Her husband discusses it on
camera too. She says she is talking about it now in order to push against Asian expectations of privacy and, as a result, ease
the shame. Huge numbers of people have got in touch with her as a result.
"I didn't realise that so many Asian women were undergoing IVF ? whether it's because of male or female infertility.
We're in the same boat, feeling the pain and pressure from in-laws and parents." She hasn't spoken to her own in-laws about whether they have seen the show. She's hoping they have not.
Now two and a half, Baby G is their "miracle" child and Christine is out of "the doghouse" with the Chiu family. Still, she wants to make sure that her son retains his Chinese and Taiwanese identity and the intimacy
with his grandparents' culture, while embracing the Californian values that resonate with her. "I still feel confined by tougher eastern expectations. I don't think I get to enjoy the casual vulnerability of a typical
Californian. But I want Baby G to grow up knowing it's OK to be mad and struggle and talk about things openly."
Naturally Baby G has a trust fund, but Christine says he must "build his own
legacy and not measure success by money". The naming of the two lodges at the Prince's Foundation Health & Wellbeing Centre in his honour was their seven-month birthday present to him. ("I have to say we
have been longtime supporters and fans of Prince Charles for his commitment and dedication to his people and his country,"
she gushes. "He's just a really remarkable man, and so funny too! Really witty ? he has the best sense of humour.") For Baby G's first birthday, the couple made a $1 million donation in his name to the Cayton
Children's Museum in Santa Monica. It was announced at a birthday party that boasted circus performers, a ten-course meal and an arcade claw machine that picked out Gucci presents.
According to Christine, Baby G spoke sign language before he was a year old, and today is learning Mandarin, French and English. During the recent Covid lockdowns the Chius have converted a portion of their
guesthouse into a school and hired a tutor. Baby G is taught a broad curriculum that includes drawing, painting, global music, drumming, sound healing
and yoga. In the afternoons they tend to the vegetable patch in order to teach him about sustainability or hang out with the llamas, borrowed from a rescue programme after Baby G was "naturally drawn to
them".
Despite all this, Christine insists she is no "tiger mom". "I don't think it was my parents' intention, but it was very much implied that I wasn't good enough," she says. "My A was not good enough because I should
have gotten an A-plus. But I think it's the wrong type of push. My son should know he's good enough already."
The show's grotesque excesses aside, Christine believes Bling Empire will have a positive impact on perceptions of east Asians in America, and on notions of beauty. "People are considering [us] beautiful, when all
I wanted as a child was to be blonde and have blue eyes. It is very heartwarming." But she is aware acceptance is fragile and racism is rife. In the past year President Trump repeatedly called Covid-19 the
"Chinese virus", which many believe was the reason for a sharp increase in hate crimes against Asian-Americans.
Initially Chiu thought the wave of discrimination wouldn't affect her, living in culturally diverse Los Angeles. But one Sunday morning this year at a farmers' market two white men started yelling at Baby G. "My
husband and I had masks and sunglasses on ? it was questionable whether or not we were Asian ? but Baby G only had a mask on. They were calling
him the 'China virus' and telling him to go home and take this virus with him. I was shocked that there was still that much hatred. It woke me up because I thought we were insulated, being in LA, but we're not."
I tell her about a text a friend of mine sent me about Bling Empire before our interview: "I am OBSESSED!!!!" She is Chinese-British and the show struck a chord with her. "It's such an amazing portrayal of what
it's like to be Asian (obviously not the financial side) but of the importance of family life," my friend wrote. "I find it the most relatable programme I've ever watched, even though they are so different to me. It
really hit home with the things I've experienced. I know that for my mum, for example, the more westernised we got, the further we drifted from her. It's really hard."
Chiu understands. Since the death of her mother last year she has started to reconnect with long-lost family members back in Taiwan. "I am reviving some cultural aspects of my background that were muted," she
says, but then stops herself. "We are diving into questions that will be explored in season two, if there is one," she explains. "I don't want to give away too many spoilers." A reminder, if ever one was needed, that
her life is now a soap opera, and it's clear we have come to the end of my allotted episode n
Bling Empire is on Netflix now
The Prince of Wales "is just a really remarkable man, and so funny too! Really witty ? he has the best sense of humour" "People are considering us beautiful, when all I wanted as a child was to be blonde and have
blue eyes"
CAPTION: A pair of llamas join Christine Chiu and her son, Gabriel "Baby G", for a picnic at their home in Bel Air P o r t r A i t B y B r i n S o n + B A n kS; Top: Christine clashes with Anna Shay on the show.
Above: with her husband, Gabriel, the philanthropist Bruno Wang, left, and the Prince of Wales at Dumfries House, 2019; Top: Christine and Baby G strike a pose as Kevin Kreider, a friend, looks on. Above: with
the model Kim Lee, left, on Bling Empire netflix
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 2 頁，共 3 頁
12/9/2021 下午 11:06
Subject
Plastic surgery;
Jewelry;
Infertility;
Dynasties;
Books;
Surrogate mothers
Location
California; Taiwan
Title
THE BLING QUEEN AND HER LITTLE EMPEROR: She's the star of Bling Empire, a new reality show about super-rich Asians living large in LA. Christine Chiu tells Megan Agnew
about plastic surgery, Prince Charles and the pressures of marrying into a Chinese dynasty
Publication title
Sunday Times; London (UK)
First page
8
Publication year
2021
Publication date
Feb 14, 2021
Section
Magazine
Publisher
News International Trading Limited.
Place of publication
London (UK)
Country of publication
United Kingdom, London (UK)
Publication subject
General Interest Periodicals--Great Britain
ISSN
09561382
Source type
Newspaper
Language of publication
English
Document type
News
ProQuest document ID
2488975705
Document URL
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/bling-queen-her-little-emperor/docview/2488975705/se-2?accountid=10345
Copyright
Copyright News International Trading Limited. Feb 14, 2021
Last updated
2021-02-14
Database
Global Newsstream
Copyright News International Trading Limited. Feb 14, 2021
Bibliography
Citation style: APA 7th (basic) - No Case Changes (No Title Casing), DOI: empty
THE BLING QUEEN AND HER LITTLE EMPEROR: SHE'S THE STAR OF BLING EMPIRE, A NEW REALITY SHOW ABOUT SUPER-RICH ASIANS LIVING LARGE IN LA. CHRISTINE CHIU TELLS MEGAN AGNEW ABOUT
PLASTIC SURGERY, PRINCE CHARLES AND THE PRESSURES OF MARRYING INTO A CHINESE DYNASTY. (2021, Feb 14). Sunday Times https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com
/newspapers/bling-queen-her-little-emperor/docview/2488975705/se-2?accountid=10345
Database copyright © 2021 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved. Terms and Conditions
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 3 頁，共 3 頁
12/9/2021 下午 11:06
