 
For Asian-Americans, Atlanta Spa Shootings
Heighten Worries; Crimes targeting Asian-
Americans have increased in some cities since
beginning of Covid-19 pandemic 
 
Bauerlein, Valerie . Wall Street Journal (Online) ; New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]19 Mar 2021.
  
ProQuest document link
 
  
 
FULL TEXT
 
In the two days since a gunman killed eight people in the Atlanta area, including six women of Asian descent,
groups have gathered in New York City, Seattle and Southern California, with more marches planned for this
weekend. Social media has lit up. 
Their common theme: The incident is mobilizing Asian-Americans who have seen their communities victimized by
hate crimes over the past year, even if police haven't determined whether the shooting belongs in that category. 
At vigils, on Twitter and in workplaces, the slayings seemed to resonate with millions of people in a way that many
said was reminiscent of George Floyd, a Black man whose death in Minneapolis police custody sparked a summer
of unrest and conversations about race in the U.S. 
President Biden ordered flags at federal buildings to be flown at half-staff in honor of the victims and plans to meet
with Asian-American leaders in Atlanta on Friday. Many employers were quick to declare their support for racial
equity and for Asian-Americans in particular. 
Investigators with the sheriff's office of Cherokee County, site of the spa where the first four people were fatally
shot, said Wednesday they had yet to find evidence that the violence was racially motivated. They said 21-year-old
suspect Robert Aaron Long told investigators he targeted spas because he blamed them "for providing an outlet
for his addiction to sex." 
But Atlanta Deputy Police Chief Charles Hampton Jr. said Thursday that his department was considering all
possibilities, including whether the fatal shootings at two Atlanta spas were hate crimes. "We had four Asian
females that were killed," Mr. Hampton said, referring to the deaths in his jurisdiction. "Nothing is off the table." 
Regardless of whether they are found to be hate crimes, many say the emotional impact has been the same. 
"No matter what they claim the motive may have to have been, we know the attacks were on a community that has
been targeted in the past," said Aisha Yaqoob Mahmood, executive director of the Atlanta-based Asian American
Advocacy Fund, a nonprofit. "No matter how you put it, people will be scared." 
Several thousand people signed online petitions calling for the firing of Cherokee Sheriff's Office Capt. Jay Baker
for saying that Mr. Long was having a "bad day" and was at the end of his rope with his sex addiction when he
acted. 
"It wasn't a bad day," tweeted Georgia state Rep. Bee Nguyen, an Atlanta Democrat. "It was a brutal and violent
crime in which racism, misogyny, gender-based violence and lax gun laws intersect." Mr. Long bought a 9-
millimeter gun hours before the shooting, according to an attorney for the gun store where the purchase was
made. 
Capt. Baker didn't respond to requests for comment. Sheriff Frank Reynolds said Capt. Baker's remarks weren't
intended to show disrespect for victims or sympathy for Mr. Long. "We regret any heartache Capt. Baker's words
may have caused," Sheriff Reynolds said. 
In testimony to the U.S. House Judiciary Committee on Thursday, Rep. Doris Matsui, a Democrat from California,
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 1 of 4
described the killings as "a horrific reminder of the fear and pain" many Asian-Americans have felt as violence
against them surged since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic, which first emerged in China. 
Anti-Asian hate crimes in Los Angeles, Boston, Seattle and more than a dozen other cities increased 149% in 2020,
according to an analysis of preliminary police data by the Center for the Study of Hate &Extremism at California
State University, San Bernardino. 
A Pew Research Center survey of 9,654 U.S. adults last June found that roughly 31% of Asian adults said they had
been the subject of slurs or jokes because of race or ethnicity since the pandemic's beginning, compared with 21%
of Black adults, 15% of Hispanic adults and 8% of white adults. 
After the Atlanta spa shootings, law-enforcement officers in New York, Seattle and Atlanta said they were closely
monitoring Asian-American communities as a precaution. 
A string of assaults this year in Oakland, Calif.'s Chinatown led authorities to create a special response unit.
Professional basketball player Jeremy Lin recently posted on social media that a racial slur was used against him
and urged different racial and ethnic groups to overcome division. 
"Look for the Asian people that are scared to walk around in their neighborhood and ask how you can help them,"
he recently posted on Facebook. 
The New York Police Department last fall formed an Asian Hate Crime Task Force, its first-ever task force
dedicated to investigating crimes targeting a single race. Deputy Inspector Stewart Loo said it can be very difficult
to prove a violent assault or attack was a hate crime because prosecutors must prove the motive. 
"It's not hard to prove that they did it, it's hard to prove why they did it," he said in an interview Thursday. 
There is more reluctance for these victims to report the crimes due to cultural standards of not wanting to make
trouble, or fear of retaliation, Deputy Inspector Loo said. To encourage people to come forward, "we do outreach
with the community leaders, we put out announcements in local Chinese newspapers, we do videos," he said. 
Some in the Asian-American community say they are thinking about how to practically change racial stereotypes
and perceptions and not be mere bystanders. 
"If there's not enough outpouring of anger, this doesn't get the attention and justice it deserves," said Helen Li, a 34
year-old program manager at a technology firm in New York City. 
Ms. Li said she has become more vocal with friends and on social media and plans to attend a march on Sunday at
Union Square. 
"We are really hoping to take this as a watershed moment where our lawmakers and the broader community will
see it for what it is," said Azka Mahmood, communications and outreach director for the Georgia chapter of the
nonprofit Council on American-Islamic Relations, or CAIR. 
Mr. Long, the suspect in the shootings, is charged with eight counts of murder and one count of aggravated
assault, officials said. 
The Federal Bureau of Investigation is still assisting local law enforcement. "If, in the course of the local
investigations, information comes to light of a potential federal violation, the FBI is prepared to investigate," said
Kevin Rowson, a spokesman for the FBI's Atlanta field office. 
The victims at the first spa targeted were Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33; Paul Andre Michels, 54; Xiaojie Tan, 49; and
Daoyou Feng, 44. Elcias R. Hernandez-Ortiz, 30, was injured. 
Atlanta police haven't released the names of four victims in the city's two spa shootings because they haven't been
able to reach next of kin, Deputy Chief Hampton said. The police were working with Korean diplomatic officials to
do so, as several of the women were of Korean descent, he said. 
Calls to two of the spas weren't returned, and the phone number for one was disconnected. 
Katie Honan contributed to this article. 
Write to Valerie Bauerlein at valerie.bauerlein@wsj.com , Esther Fung at esther.fung@wsj.com and Cameron
McWhirter at cameron.mcwhirter@wsj.com  
For Asian-Americans, Atlanta Spa Shootings Heighten Worries  
Credit: By Valerie Bauerlein, Esther Fung and Cameron McWhirter  
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 2 of 4
 
 
DETAILS
 
Subject:
Violence; Asian Americans; Social networks; COVID-19
Business indexing term:
Subject: Social networks
Location:
California New York City New York New York United States--US Atlanta Georgia
Georgia
Company / organization:
Name: Federal Bureau of Investigation--FBI; NAICS: 922120
Publication title:
Wall Street Journal (Online); New York, N.Y.
Publication year:
2021
Publication date:
Mar 19, 2021
column:
U.S. News
Section:
US
Publisher:
Dow Jones &Company Inc
Place of publication:
New York, N.Y.
Country of publication:
United States, New York, N.Y.
Publication subject:
Business And Economics
e-ISSN:
25749579
Source type:
Newspapers
Language of publication:
English
Document type:
News
ProQuest document ID:
2502544203
Document URL:
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/asian-
americans-atlanta-spa-shootings-heighten/docview/2502544203/se-
2?accountid=10345
Copyright:
Copyright 2021 Dow Jones &Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Last updated:
2021-03-24
Database:
ABI/INFORM Collection,Global Newsstream
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 3 of 4
LINKS
Check OneSearch for Availability
  
 
Database copyright  2021 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
 
Terms and Conditions   Contact ProQuest
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 4 of 4
