ProQuest
document 1 of 1
Full Text ❘ Newspaper
Asian American activists mobilizing for civil rights: Recent attacks have prompted many to speak out for the first time
Chao, M. (2021, Apr 12). Asian American activists mobilizing for civil rights: Recent attacks have prompted many to speak out for the first time. Asbury Park Press
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/asian-american-activists-mobilizing-civil-rights/docview/2511079195/se-2?accountid=10345
app.
Find a copy
Check OneSearch for Availability
http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88-
2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt: kev: mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ: ProQ%3Anortheastnews1&atitle=Asian+American+activists +mobilizing +for+civil+rights%3A+Recent+
04-12&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au-Chao%2C+Mary&isbn=&jtitle=Asbury+Park+Press&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/
Abstract
None available.
Full Text
Angry. Hurt. Shocked.
Those are some of the emotions that have racked Asian Americans in North Jersey after witnessing unprovoked race-based attacks as Asians have been scapegoated for
the COVID-19 pandemic, which originated in Wuhan, China.
But Asian Americans are harnessing that emotion and using it to fuel a mass movement designed to stem the tide of hate against Asians. In cities across the United
States in recent weeks, tens of thousands of people took to the streets to demonstrate.
More than 150 years after Asians first settled in America, Asian Americans are for the first time mobilizing en masse in a civil rights movement. The recent attacks have
prompted many to speak out, shedding cultural norms.
North Jersey is home to some of the largest Asian American communities in the United States. More than 40% of residents in boroughs such as Fort Lee and Leonia
identify as Asian, as do nearly 60% of residents in Palisades Park. In recent weeks they took to the streets carrying posters and signs that read "Stop Asian Hate" and
"Hate is a Virus."
A new generation of North Jersey Asian Americans is spearheading this movement, having grown up in the Garden State feeling isolated. These people have faced
racism, but until now brushed it off instead of calling it out.
Below, some of these new leaders share their stories.
Brian Jon
Brian Jon could not believe what he heard. As a freshman at Bergen County Technical Schools in 2017, he learned of an incident at a sister school, Bergen County
Academies, in which a Spanish language teacher allegedly announced during class that she hated Korean students. Outraged, he started a petition drive and gathered
more than 1,500 signatures to successfully oust the teacher from the school.
That experience led Jon to further activism. For the 19-year-old, an immigrant who arrived from South Korea at the age of 6 with his mother, Ellen Jeon, life has not been
easy. ProQuest document 1 of 1 Full Text ❘ Newspaper Asian American activists mobilizing for civil rights : Recent attacks have prompted many to speak out for the first time Chao , M. ( 2021 , Apr 12 ) . Asian American activists mobilizing for civil rights : Recent attacks have prompted many to speak out for the first time . Asbury Park Press https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/asian-american-activists-mobilizing-civil-rights/docview/2511079195/se-2?accountid=10345 app . Find a copy Check OneSearch for Availability http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88- 2004 & rft_val_fmt = info : ofi / fmt : kev : mtx : journal & genre = article & sid = ProQ : ProQ % 3Anortheastnews1 & atitle = Asian + American + activists + mobilizing + for + civil + rights % 3A + Recent + 04-12 & volume = & issue = & spage = A.1 & au - Chao % 2C + Mary & isbn = & jtitle = Asbury + Park + Press & btitle = & rft_id = info : eric / & rft_id = info : doi / Abstract None available . Full Text Angry . Hurt . Shocked . Those are some of the emotions that have racked Asian Americans in North Jersey after witnessing unprovoked race - based attacks as Asians have been scapegoated for the COVID - 19 pandemic , which originated in Wuhan , China . But Asian Americans are harnessing that emotion and using it to fuel a mass movement designed to stem the tide of hate against Asians . In cities across the United States in recent weeks , tens of thousands of people took to the streets to demonstrate . More than 150 years after Asians first settled in America , Asian Americans are for the first time mobilizing en masse in a civil rights movement . The recent attacks have prompted many to speak out , shedding cultural norms . North Jersey is home to some of the largest Asian American communities in the United States . More than 40 % of residents in boroughs such as Fort Lee and Leonia identify as Asian , as do nearly 60 % of residents in Palisades Park . In recent weeks they took to the streets carrying posters and signs that read " Stop Asian Hate " and " Hate is a Virus . " A new generation of North Jersey Asian Americans is spearheading this movement , having grown up in the Garden State feeling isolated . These people have faced racism , but until now brushed it off instead of calling it out . Below , some of these new leaders share their stories . Brian Jon Brian Jon could not believe what he heard . As a freshman at Bergen County Technical Schools in 2017 , he learned of an incident at a sister school , Bergen County Academies , in which a Spanish language teacher allegedly announced during class that she hated Korean students . Outraged , he started a petition drive and gathered more than 1,500 signatures to successfully oust the teacher from the school . That experience led Jon to further activism . For the 19 - year - old , an immigrant who arrived from South Korea at the age of 6 with his mother , Ellen Jeon , life has not been easy . "The only thing I knew how to say was hello," Jon recalled of his arrival in New Jersey.
He attended schools in Tenafly, raised by his busy single mom. Before long, other kids introduced him to sports such as wrestling, football and swimming.
Though he assimilated, Jon remains very aware of his Korean American identity.
"It is our job to be aware of anti-Asian bias," Jon said. "Our parents' generation, Asians are often taught to be very mannered, to be respectful of our elders, so we don't
really raise our voices and we normally keep ourselves very shut. We suppress our feelings."
In January 2020, Jon launched an organization for like-minded young Asian activists called Asian American Youth Council. There are over 50 student members of the
organization advocating for Asian American issues.
"It's very crucial for us second-generation Asian Americans speak up for our elders," he said, noting the spate of hate crimes. "It is a mandatory thing now."
Cecilia Chan and Mia Hur
Watching news reports about the Atlanta massage spa shootings, Cecilia Chan of Tenafly couldn't sleep. She was convinced it was a case of Asian fetishization, where
men fantasize about Asian women in a deviant nature.
"I was outraged when media tried to spin the narrative of sexual addiction," said Chan, who has been victimized by Asian fetishization stereotypes. "I was completely
outraged. It just hit home on so many levels."
Meanwhile, Tenafly resident Mia Hur, a real estate agent, purse designer and mother of a teenage son, was also upset about the shootings and that the suspected
gunmen was normalized in the media by explaining he had a sexual addiction. She knew she needed to do something.
Simultaneously, Chan and Hur reached out to elected officials, who asked them to organize. In three days, the duo put together a rally calling for an end to anti-Asian
hate.
"I felt hurt. I felt outraged. I felt angry," Chan said.
Hur echoed Chan's sentiments, explaining the current mood of many Asian Americans.
"A lot of people probably don't understand why it's a big deal to the Asian American community," Hur said of the Atlanta shootings. "It just perpetuates stereotypes,
gaslighting our culture."
Chan and Hur connected over shared experiences and emotions, organizing the first North Jersey rally against anti-Asian racism after the Atlanta killings. It was held in
Tenafly on March 21 and drew more than 800 people. More than a half-dozen vigils followed throughout North Jersey.
The recent spate of attacks against Asian Americans is opening old wounds for Chan and Hur. The nonprofit group Stop AAPI Hate reported 3,795 anti-Asian incidents
since the start of the COVID pandemic, with Asians scapegoated for the coronavirus.
Now 47, Hur arrived in the United States from South Korea when she was 6. Back then, hers was among a handful of Asian families in Tenafly.
"It was isolating," Hur recalled. "That really made me aware of my identity."
Her parents were busy working as merchants in New York City, so she had to grow up fast. The community of Tenafly was kind and generous to her in her youth, with
families inviting her to places and events. Because of its diversity, she and her husband chose to stay in Tenafly to raise their son, now 13.
Born in New York City to Chinese immigrant parents who owned Chinese restaurants, Chan, 44, describes herself as a recovering lawyer who is now a stay-at-home mom
to two children. Her family lived in Westchester County, New York, before moving to Cresskill, where she sometimes felt boxed in.
Chan and Hur both understand the Asian immigrant experience and that language and culture have been barriers to attaining visibility.
"We're taught to work hard, keep our heads down, don't make trouble. These are cultural foundations," Hur said. "We wrestle with it. I know our whole community
wrestles with it."
So Chan is working on helping others in the community speak out. "There's so much hesitation due to cultural norms," she said.
A goal of the movement is to unify Asian Americans throughout New Jersey and celebrate diversity within diversity.
"We are made up of different cultures and races from around the world," Chan said. "That's what makes us stronger."
Chris Chung
As he was growing up in a Korean immigrant household in Tenafly, assimilation was difficult for Chris Chung. He arrived in the United States at the age of 11 in 1978 and
was among the few immigrant children in his school. While other classmates' parents attended school events and cheered for their children, Chung's parents were busy
working at the family business, a general merchandise store in Brooklyn, and later a wholesale fine jewelry business.
"I envied other children's parents attending events, from sporting events to school events," said Chung, 53. "That always stuck with me." As a result, he always thought
that when he grew up and had children, he would make sure he was part of their education.
As an adult living in Palisades Park - and wanting his children to enjoy a life he did not have - Chung, a real estate agent, decided to get involved in local politics.
Initially he ran for school board and then a Borough Council seat before being elected mayor in a contentious race against incumbent James Rotundo in 2018. An online
tirade by Rotundo's mother against the town's large Korean community went viral.
Lorraine Rotundo posted on Facebook shortly after her son learned that the Democratic primary race in June of 2018 was too close to call.
"Go to hell PALISADES PARK, let the GD KOREANS have this F'n town," she wrote. "All of us AMERICANS are so done. I am going to suggest that only English be spoken in
our Boro Hall at least while an AMERICAN is still the mayor."
Rotundo apologized for her post. More than 300 Korean Americans took to the streets to protest.
Now in his third year as mayor, Chung reflects on his role as leader of a community that is almost 60% Asian. " The only thing I knew how to say was hello , " Jon recalled of his arrival in New Jersey . He attended schools in Tenafly , raised by his busy single mom . Before long , other kids introduced him to sports such as wrestling , football and swimming . Though he assimilated , Jon remains very aware of his Korean American identity . " It is our job to be aware of anti - Asian bias , " Jon said . " Our parents ' generation , Asians are often taught to be very mannered , to be respectful of our elders , so we don't really raise our voices and we normally keep ourselves very shut . We suppress our feelings . " In January 2020 , Jon launched an organization for like - minded young Asian activists called Asian American Youth Council . There are over 50 student members of the organization advocating for Asian American issues . " It's very crucial for us second - generation Asian Americans speak up for our elders , " he said , noting the spate of hate crimes . " It is a mandatory thing now . " Cecilia Chan and Mia Hur Watching news reports about the Atlanta massage spa shootings , Cecilia Chan of Tenafly couldn't sleep . She was convinced it was a case of Asian fetishization , where men fantasize about Asian women in a deviant nature . " I was outraged when media tried to spin the narrative of sexual addiction , " said Chan , who has been victimized by Asian fetishization stereotypes . " I was completely outraged . It just hit home on so many levels . " Meanwhile , Tenafly resident Mia Hur , a real estate agent , purse designer and mother of a teenage son , was also upset about the shootings and that the suspected gunmen was normalized in the media by explaining he had a sexual addiction . She knew she needed to do something . Simultaneously , Chan and Hur reached out to elected officials , who asked them to organize . In three days , the duo put together a rally calling for an end to anti - Asian hate . " I felt hurt . I felt outraged . I felt angry , " Chan said . Hur echoed Chan's sentiments , explaining the current mood of many Asian Americans . " A lot of people probably don't understand why it's a big deal to the Asian American community , " Hur said of the Atlanta shootings . " It just perpetuates stereotypes , gaslighting our culture . " Chan and Hur connected over shared experiences and emotions , organizing the first North Jersey rally against anti - Asian racism after the Atlanta killings . It was held in Tenafly on March 21 and drew more than 800 people . More than a half - dozen vigils followed throughout North Jersey . The recent spate of attacks against Asian Americans is opening old wounds for Chan and Hur . The nonprofit group Stop AAPI Hate reported 3,795 anti - Asian incidents since the start of the COVID pandemic , with Asians scapegoated for the coronavirus . Now 47 , Hur arrived in the United States from South Korea when she was 6. Back then , hers was among a handful of Asian families in Tenafly . " It was isolating , " Hur recalled . " That really made me aware of my identity . " Her parents were busy working as merchants in New York City , so she had to grow up fast . The community of Tenafly was kind and generous to her in her youth , with families inviting her to places and events . Because of its diversity , she and her husband chose to stay in Tenafly to raise their son , now 13 . Born in New York City to Chinese immigrant parents who owned Chinese restaurants , Chan , 44 , describes herself as a recovering lawyer who is now a stay - at - home mom to two children . Her family lived in Westchester County , New York , before moving to Cresskill , where she sometimes felt boxed in . Chan and Hur both understand the Asian immigrant experience and that language and culture have been barriers to attaining visibility . " We're taught to work hard , keep our heads down , don't make trouble . These are cultural foundations , " Hur said . " We wrestle with it . I know our whole community wrestles with it . " So Chan is working on helping others in the community speak out . " There's so much hesitation due to cultural norms , " she said . A goal of the movement is to unify Asian Americans throughout New Jersey and celebrate diversity within diversity . " We are made up of different cultures and races from around the world , " Chan said . " That's what makes us stronger . " Chris Chung As he was growing up in a Korean immigrant household in Tenafly , assimilation was difficult for Chris Chung . He arrived in the United States at the age of 11 in 1978 and was among the few immigrant children in his school . While other classmates ' parents attended school events and cheered for their children , Chung's parents were busy working at the family business , a general merchandise store in Brooklyn , and later a wholesale fine jewelry business . " I envied other children's parents attending events , from sporting events to school events , " said Chung , 53. " That always stuck with me . " As a result , he always thought that when he grew up and had children , he would make sure he was part of their education . As an adult living in Palisades Park - and wanting his children to enjoy a life he did not have - Chung , a real estate agent , decided to get involved in local politics . Initially he ran for school board and then a Borough Council seat before being elected mayor in a contentious race against incumbent James Rotundo in 2018. An online tirade by Rotundo's mother against the town's large Korean community went viral . Lorraine Rotundo posted on Facebook shortly after her son learned that the Democratic primary race in June of 2018 was too close to call . " Go to hell PALISADES PARK , let the GD KOREANS have this F'n town , " she wrote . " All of us AMERICANS are so done . I am going to suggest that only English be spoken in our Boro Hall at least while an AMERICAN is still the mayor . " Rotundo apologized for her post . More than 300 Korean Americans took to the streets to protest . Now in his third year as mayor , Chung reflects on his role as leader of a community that is almost 60 % Asian . "My whole purpose is to serve the community," Chung said. "I'm not title-hungry."
Since taking office, Chung has implemented changes such as hiring Korean-speaking staff to serve residents and translating the borough's website into Korean and
Spanish.
Copyright 2021 - ASBURY PARK PRESS - All Rights Reserved.
Subject
Location
Title
Author
Publication title
First page
Publication
year
Publication date
Section
Publisher
Place of publication
Country of publication
Publication subject
Source type
Language of publication
Document type
ProQuest document ID
Document URL
Copyright
Last updated
Database
Parents & parenting;
Culture;
Racism;
Pandemics;
School boards;
Stereotypes;
Families & family life;
Asian Americans;
Activism;
Race;
Coronaviruses;
Civil rights;
COVID-19
United States--US; New Jersey; New York City New York; South Korea; Atlanta Georgia
Asian American activists mobilizing for civil rights: Recent attacks have prompted many to speak out for the first time
Chao, Mary
Asbury Park Press; Asbury Park, N.J.
A.1
2021
Apr 12, 2021
News
Gannett Media Corp
Asbury Park, N.J.
United States, Asbury Park, N.J.
General Interest Periodicals--United States
Newspaper
English
News
2511079195
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/asian-american-activists-mobilizing-civil-
rights/docview/2511079195/se-2?accountid=10345
Copyright 2021 - ASBURY PARK PRESS - All Rights Reserved.
2021-04-12
Global Newsstream
-
Bibliography
Citation style: APA 7th American Psychological Association, 7th Edition
Chao, M. (2021, Apr 12). Asian American activists mobilizing for civil rights: Recent attacks have prompted many to speak out for the first time. Asbury Park Press
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/asian-american-activists-mobilizing-civil-rights/docview/2511079195/se-2?accountid=10345
Database copyright © 2022 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved. Terms and Conditions " My whole purpose is to serve the community , " Chung said . " I'm not title - hungry . " Since taking office , Chung has implemented changes such as hiring Korean - speaking staff to serve residents and translating the borough's website into Korean and Spanish . Copyright 2021 - ASBURY PARK PRESS - All Rights Reserved . Subject Location Title Author Publication title First page Publication year Publication date Section Publisher Place of publication Country of publication Publication subject Source type Language of publication Document type ProQuest document ID Document URL Copyright Last updated Database Parents & parenting ; Culture ; Racism ; Pandemics ; School boards ; Stereotypes ; Families & family life ; Asian Americans ; Activism ; Race ; Coronaviruses ; Civil rights ; COVID - 19 United States -- US ; New Jersey ; New York City New York ; South Korea ; Atlanta Georgia Asian American activists mobilizing for civil rights : Recent attacks have prompted many to speak out for the first time Chao , Mary Asbury Park Press ; Asbury Park , N.J. A.1 2021 Apr 12 , 2021 News Gannett Media Corp Asbury Park , N.J. United States , Asbury Park , N.J. General Interest Periodicals -- United States Newspaper English News 2511079195 https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/asian-american-activists-mobilizing-civil- rights / docview / 2511079195 / se - 2 ? accountid = 10345 Copyright 2021 - ASBURY PARK PRESS - All Rights Reserved . 2021-04-12 Global Newsstream - Bibliography Citation style : APA 7th American Psychological Association , 7th Edition Chao , M. ( 2021 , Apr 12 ) . Asian American activists mobilizing for civil rights : Recent attacks have prompted many to speak out for the first time . Asbury Park Press https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/asian-american-activists-mobilizing-civil-rights/docview/2511079195/se-2?accountid=10345 Database copyright © 2022 ProQuest LLC . All rights reserved . Terms and Conditions 