 
Stop hatred aimed at AAPI community 
 
Kulkarni, Manjusha; Choi, Cynthia; Jeung, Russell M . The Clarion Ledger ; Jackson, Miss. [Jackson,
Miss]04 Apr 2021: D.2.
  
ProQuest document link
 
  
 
FULL TEXT
 
We created Stop AAPI Hate so there was a way to capture the increasing attacks on our community. One year later,
the vaccine provides a light at the end of the tunnel for the pandemic. But it seems there's no end in sight for anti-
Asian hate. 
News about the deadly shooting in Atlanta broke almost one year to the day since we created the Stop AAPI Hate
reporting center. 
Twelve months ago, our country was in the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic. Most Americans were entering
their first quarantines and watching a virus spread faster than government systems could track. 
But Asian Americans were watching something spread even faster than COVID-19: Widespread hate and
discrimination against members of our community. 
In early February, even before a single COVID-19 case was recorded in Los Angeles, a 12-year-old Asian American
child in the city was physically assaulted in his school by a classmate who said he was a coronavirus carrier and
that he should go back to China. 
At the time, incidents like these weren't broadly reported. But they were widespread —they were happening to our
neighbors, colleagues, our family members and ourselves. 
We created Stop AAPI Hate so there was a way to capture the increasing attacks on our community. 
One year later, the vaccine provides a light at the end of the tunnel for the pandemic. But it seems there's no end in
sight for anti-Asian hate. 
In the two weeks since our country watched in horror as eight people —six of them Asian American women –were
killed in Atlanta, we've been repeatedly asked why this is occurring. Many Asian Americans do not view these
shootings in a vacuum. 
In the days leading up to the shooting, there were what seemed to be daily reports of violent, public attacks against
Asian Americans —especially elderly Asian Americans —in places that included Oakland, San Francisco and New
York City. 
The Atlanta shootings took place, in fact, hours after we published a report documenting nearly 3,800 self-reported
hate incidents from the AAPI community. 
Anti-Asian hate and the scapegoating of immigrants is nothing new. But in looking through the thousands of
reports that we received, several things came to the fore. 
Trump's rhetoric normalized hate 
For one, former President Donald Trump's and other government officials' widespread use of slurs like "Kung Flu,"
his anti-China rhetoric and his exploitation of existing xenophobia played a major factor in normalizing and
spreading hate against Asian Americans, both during the Trump administration and even now that his term is over. 
Asian Americans reported hearing these slurs like "China virus" thrown at them while they were refused business,
harassed, spit on or attacked. 
There was also a devastating intersection between racism and misogyny. In our data, women reported incidents
2.3 times more often than men did. The reports and stories from these women often described being sexually
harassed and COVID-19 being weaponized as part of the sexual harassment. 
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 1 of 3
"You Asian c---," one man yelled at Vietnamese American Hong Lee after she declined his offer of lunch last
August. "What is the matter with these hoes ... Help her go back to f----- Asia." 
This month, we've also been asked about what can be done. In the shadow of the Atlanta-area shooting, there is,
understandably, a strong urge to focus on hate crime enforcement. 
For example, the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act, authored by U.S. Sen. Mazie Hirono and U.S. Rep. Grace Meng, would
require a Department of Justice employee to facilitate fast reviews of federal, state and local COVID-19 hate crimes
for one year as well as mandate guidance to local enforcement to establish an online hate crime reporting form in
multiple languages. 
Certainly, steps such as these can help address the lack of hate crime reporting. But the fact remains that 90% of
the incidents reported to us are not hate crimes because no underlying crime was committed. Many are civil rights
violations involving discrimination in the workplace, restaurants and retail venues and can be prosecuted in civil
court. 
Multiple solutions are needed 
Racism against Asian Americans is longstanding and complex, and requires a comprehensive and multi-faceted
approach. 
We need resources dedicated to local communities, including community safety programs and in-language
support for those in need of mental health, legal and immigration services. 
We need to build a strong civil rights infrastructure at the local level by fully funding community-based groups,
which are often the first responders to incidents of hate. 
We need to increase exposure to the voices and histories of all communities by expanding ethnic studies and
education. 
And finally, we need stronger federal civil rights laws that address discrimination in public accommodations
—businesses where we buy our groceries, refill our prescriptions and eat our meals. 
These solutions are neither complex nor out-of-reach. 
A number of groups across the country are already moving this work forward. In Los Angeles, LA vs. Hate provides
direct assistance to victims of hate through a 211 reporting system for all marginalized community members. 
The San Francisco-based Coalition for Community Safety and Justice focuses on victim services, intervention and
prevention programs, community mediation and restorative justice practices. 
We founded Stop AAPI Hate to not only raise awareness about anti-Asian hate but also to fight against it. 
The outpouring of support and solidarity from all racial groups that has risen up in the days since this tragedy
gives us every reason to be optimistic. With the energy and calls for change we are seeing now, we are
fundamentally hopeful that there is a true path forward in ending anti-Asian hate. 
To report an anti-Asian hate incident or to learn more about what you can do to help, visit: stopaapihate.org. 
Manjusha Kulkarni, executive director of the Asian Pacific Policy and Planning Council; Cynthia Choi, co-executive
director of Chinese for Affirmative Action; and Russell M. Jeung, professor of Asian American Studies at San
Francisco State University, are co-founders of Stop AAPI Hate. 
We created Stop AAPI Hate so there was a way to capture the increasing attacks on our community. One year later,
the vaccine provides a light at the end of the tunnel for the pandemic. But it seems there's no end in sight for anti-
Asian hate. 
 
 
DETAILS
 
Subject:
Vaccines; Hate crimes; Sexual harassment; Pandemics; Community; Asian
Americans; Shootings; Civil rights; Coronaviruses; Disease transmission; COVID-19
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 2 of 3
 
LINKS
Check OneSearch for Availability
  
 
Database copyright  2021 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
 
Terms and Conditions   Contact ProQuest
Location:
United States--US China Los Angeles California San Francisco California Atlanta
Georgia
Publication title:
The Clarion Ledger; Jackson, Miss.
First page:
D.2
Publication year:
2021
Publication date:
Apr 4, 2021
Section:
Opinion
Publisher:
Gannett Co., Inc.
Place of publication:
Jackson, Miss.
Country of publication:
United States, Jackson, Miss.
Publication subject:
General Interest Periodicals--United States
ISSN:
07449526
Source type:
Newspapers
Language of publication:
English
Document type:
Editorial
ProQuest document ID:
2508186103
Document URL:
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/stop-
hatred-aimed-at-aapi-community/docview/2508186103/se-2?accountid=10345
Copyright:
Copyright 2021 - THE CLARION-LEDGER - All Rights Reserved.
Last updated:
2021-04-04
Database:
Global Newsstream
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 3 of 3
