ProQuest
document 1 of 1
Full Text
Newspaper
SJ Asian Americans express fear, resolve
Trethan, P. (2021, Apr 09). SJ Asian Americans express fear, resolve. Daily Journal https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sj-asian-
americans-express-fear-resolve/docview/2510010540/se-2?accountid=10345
dj
Find a copy
Check OneSearch for Availability
http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88-
2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev: mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anortheastnews1&atitle=SJ+Asian+Americans +express+fear%2C+resolve&title=Daily+Journ
04-09&volume=&issue=&spage=A.5&au-Trethan%2C+Phaedra&isbn=&jtitle=Daily+Journal&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/
Abstract
None available.
Full Text
Allison Wang, a Cherry Hill resident since 2007, came to this country because she, like generations of immigrants before her, believed in the American ideal.
"What made America great is the open and welcoming culture of diversity," said Wang, an accounting director with a healthcare company and a mother of two. "That's
why it attracts so many talented and diverse people."
But recently, she and other Asian Americans like her have wondered, "Is this really the country we signed up for?"
Recent attacks on Asian Americans, many brought on by hatred and misplaced blame for the COVID-19 pandemic, have created a sense of fear among a diverse
community made up of several cultures, nationalities, languages and histories who are all nonetheless often seen as a monolith.
And the brutal murders of eight people six of them Asian women
resolve that the time to act to end hate is long overdue.
-
in Atlanta have fueled more fear among Asian Americans in South Jersey, but also a sense of
During a Zoom meeting arranged by the Asian American Alliance of South Jersey, several people talked about their experiences with discrimination and racism and their
fears for their families and themselves.
They and others also expressed hope that, in the same way that the killing of George Floyd sparked a reckoning over treatment of Black Americans, the Atlanta shootings
might also bring recognition, support and action to stop the targeting of Asian Americans.
Nothing new, but worse than ever
Edward Wang is a professor of Asian history at Rowan University who has lived in the United States for more than 30 years. A former member of the Cherry Hill Board of
Education and a native of Shanghai, China, he said anti-Asian sentiment is nothing new.
"Looking back in this country's history, Asian Americans have been discriminated against since at least 1882, with the Chinese Exclusion Act," he noted. Before 1965's
Immigration and Nationality Act, quotas kept most Asians from becoming American citizens.
But even for those who are citizens, including Asians born in the United States, there is discrimination. ProQuest document 1 of 1 Full Text Newspaper SJ Asian Americans express fear , resolve Trethan , P. ( 2021 , Apr 09 ) . SJ Asian Americans express fear , resolve . Daily Journal https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sj-asian- americans - express - fear - resolve / docview / 2510010540 / se - 2 ? accountid = 10345 dj Find a copy Check OneSearch for Availability http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88- 2004 & rft_val_fmt = info : ofi / fmt : kev : mtx : journal & genre = article & sid = ProQ : ProQ % 3Anortheastnews1 & atitle = SJ + Asian + Americans + express + fear % 2C + resolve & title = Daily + Journ 04-09 & volume = & issue = & spage = A.5 & au - Trethan % 2C + Phaedra & isbn = & jtitle = Daily + Journal & btitle = & rft_id = info : eric / & rft_id = info : doi / Abstract None available . Full Text Allison Wang , a Cherry Hill resident since 2007 , came to this country because she , like generations of immigrants before her , believed in the American ideal . " What made America great is the open and welcoming culture of diversity , " said Wang , an accounting director with a healthcare company and a mother of two . " That's why it attracts so many talented and diverse people . " But recently , she and other Asian Americans like her have wondered , " Is this really the country we signed up for ? " Recent attacks on Asian Americans , many brought on by hatred and misplaced blame for the COVID - 19 pandemic , have created a sense of fear among a diverse community made up of several cultures , nationalities , languages and histories who are all nonetheless often seen as a monolith . And the brutal murders of eight people six of them Asian women resolve that the time to act to end hate is long overdue . - in Atlanta have fueled more fear among Asian Americans in South Jersey , but also a sense of During a Zoom meeting arranged by the Asian American Alliance of South Jersey , several people talked about their experiences with discrimination and racism and their fears for their families and themselves . They and others also expressed hope that , in the same way that the killing of George Floyd sparked a reckoning over treatment of Black Americans , the Atlanta shootings might also bring recognition , support and action to stop the targeting of Asian Americans . Nothing new , but worse than ever Edward Wang is a professor of Asian history at Rowan University who has lived in the United States for more than 30 years . A former member of the Cherry Hill Board of Education and a native of Shanghai , China , he said anti - Asian sentiment is nothing new . " Looking back in this country's history , Asian Americans have been discriminated against since at least 1882 , with the Chinese Exclusion Act , " he noted . Before 1965's Immigration and Nationality Act , quotas kept most Asians from becoming American citizens . But even for those who are citizens , including Asians born in the United States , there is discrimination . "We are constantly being asked, 'where did you come from?"" said Wang. "People assume that if you are Asian you must be a recent immigrant. It's not very comfortable
for us."
U.S. Rep. Andy Kim represents New Jersey's Third District and is the son of Korean immigrants.
"The short answer is yes, I have experienced racist discrimination, and so have members of my family along with many others in South Jersey," Kim told the Courier-Post.
People avoided him, told him they worried he could give them the coronavirus; he had heard from Asian restaurateurs whose businesses were targeted with racist
graffiti.
Rhetoric used by former President Donald Trump, especially his use of terms like "China virus" and "kung flu," made things worse, creating a sense of blame as COVID-19
forced lockdowns, and the lockdowns caused the economy to crater.
"We know that discrimination existed before coronavirus and sadly it will continue after this is over," said Kim, a Democrat. "But this has been gasoline poured over a
fire."
Kim worries that as tensions escalate with China over issues like trade and human rights, xenophobia, hate and discrimination could escalate as well.
And many Asian Americans worry not only for themselves, but for their families.
"All Asian American kids have experienced this kind of discrimination, but the pandemic has raised it to a level that cannot go unnoticed, and must be stopped," said
Xiufang Chen, a Cherry Hill resident and mother.
"This is the first time I don't feel safe," said Li Li, the principal of Cherry Hill Huaxia Chinese who is originally from Xi'an, China. Some parents she's spoken with, she said,
"don't want to make a big fuss, or want to let it go, but really we shouldn't.... We should let our kids know what (behavior) is right and what is wrong."
The 'model minority' problem
Often seen as "model minority," a monolith of hardworking, industrious and entrepreneurial people, Asian Americans are really a diverse race from countries with very
distinct cultures, languages, histories and cuisines.
For example, there are 56 ethnic groups in China and linguists estimate 297 living languages are spoken among the 1.21 billion people in Mainland China, Taiwan, Hong
Kong and Tibet. The Philippines is a nation with more than 7,000 islands and more than 170 ethnic groups, influenced by centuries of migration and conquest from
Malaysia, South Asia, Spain, China and the United States.
"The model minority is a damaging perception, but it's one that lends itself to people thinking they can ignore (Asian Americans), that they are off doing their own thing,
that if they don't complain then everything must be going well," said Kim.
Many Asian Americans don't speak up, he acknowledged, "because they don't think anything will happen or that anyone will care," leading to greater feelings of isolation.
"Many in the Asian community struggle," said Chen. "Sometimes when I think of this tragedy (the Atlanta shootings) I get angry, because did it take this happening for
people to realize Asian Americans deserve attention?"
"It dodges the real problem we have," said Nina Gao, president of the Asian American Alliance of South Jersey and Shanghai native who lives in Cherry Hill.
"It is a way to wedge us out of the mainstream: You can take care of yourselves, you all live in these Chinatowns. We give you this glorious title, but it keeps us away, it
makes us feel very foreign."
"We're thought of as self-supporting and people who make a lot of money, and that makes us targets," said Wen Gu, a librarian from Cherry Hill.
"Many Americans don't want to take the time to really learn about us, so they lump us all together," said Gao, who is on the faculty of Rutgers University's biomedical and
health services department. "They think we are all the same, we all eat weird food and speak a weird language, that we are not Americans."
"People don't notice us because we keep our heads down and we work hard," said Doris Zheng, a 21-year-old Rutgers-Camden student. Her family emigrated from a
small city in Southeast China more than 20 years ago; her father is a chef and her mother is a home health aide.
Zheng, vice president of the university's Student Government Association, said she's supportive of Black and brown people's struggles with systemic racism in American.
"But Asian Americans are often hidden, in the dark, and there's this idea that we're smart and work hard and we don't need any help.
"There's this perception of us as prim and proper and perfect. We seem to be doing fine, but really that's because we are working so damn hard."
The model minority idea, she noted, is not only damaging to Asians - it also minimizes the very real problems faced by Black and brown Americans, making others think
they should overcome obstacles as well as Asians do, without understanding the differences in their histories, and the kinds of racism they encounter.
Is Atlanta a tipping point?
Kim pointed to "this moment of mourning" for the victims of the Atlanta shootings - and initial news of the shootings, which first characterized the shooter's sex addiction
as a motive, drawing a strong backlash - as an event that brought the problem of anti-Asian hate to light.
-
In a February address to the nation to acknowledge the loss of 500,000 Americans to COVID-19, President Joe Biden urged an end to attacks on Asian Americans, Kim
noted. The President and Vice President Kamala Harris met with Asian American leaders in Atlanta on March 19.
"People have told me they finally feel heard and seen," said Kim. "The question now is, is it going to be sustained, even after this tragedy falls out of the spotlight? Is this
something durable that can lead to change? Many of us have been calling for that for at least a year."
"What bothers me about Atlanta is blaming a hate crime on a sex addiction, which this is clearly not," said Gao. "This was obviously targeting Asian women."
Jinwei Cao recalled an incident in June, when apartment residents in Newark, Delaware, found fliers that said "Kill Chinese virus" at their doors.
The incident rattled students at the University of Delaware, where Cao teaches. While she was satisfied with the police and university responses to the fliers, she said "it
was really unacceptable."
"The Atlanta shootings, I heard from so many friends and students who felt like this is a breaking point," said Gao. " We are constantly being asked , ' where did you come from ? " " said Wang . " People assume that if you are Asian you must be a recent immigrant . It's not very comfortable for us . " U.S. Rep . Andy Kim represents New Jersey's Third District and is the son of Korean immigrants . " The short answer is yes , I have experienced racist discrimination , and so have members of my family along with many others in South Jersey , " Kim told the Courier - Post . People avoided him , told him they worried he could give them the coronavirus ; he had heard from Asian restaurateurs whose businesses were targeted with racist graffiti . Rhetoric used by former President Donald Trump , especially his use of terms like " China virus " and " kung flu , " made things worse , creating a sense of blame as COVID - 19 forced lockdowns , and the lockdowns caused the economy to crater . " We know that discrimination existed before coronavirus and sadly it will continue after this is over , " said Kim , a Democrat . " But this has been gasoline poured over a fire . " Kim worries that as tensions escalate with China over issues like trade and human rights , xenophobia , hate and discrimination could escalate as well . And many Asian Americans worry not only for themselves , but for their families . " All Asian American kids have experienced this kind of discrimination , but the pandemic has raised it to a level that cannot go unnoticed , and must be stopped , " said Xiufang Chen , a Cherry Hill resident and mother . " This is the first time I don't feel safe , " said Li Li , the principal of Cherry Hill Huaxia Chinese who is originally from Xi'an , China . Some parents she's spoken with , she said , " don't want to make a big fuss , or want to let it go , but really we shouldn't .... We should let our kids know what ( behavior ) is right and what is wrong . " The ' model minority ' problem Often seen as " model minority , " a monolith of hardworking , industrious and entrepreneurial people , Asian Americans are really a diverse race from countries with very distinct cultures , languages , histories and cuisines . For example , there are 56 ethnic groups in China and linguists estimate 297 living languages are spoken among the 1.21 billion people in Mainland China , Taiwan , Hong Kong and Tibet . The Philippines is a nation with more than 7,000 islands and more than 170 ethnic groups , influenced by centuries of migration and conquest from Malaysia , South Asia , Spain , China and the United States . " The model minority is a damaging perception , but it's one that lends itself to people thinking they can ignore ( Asian Americans ) , that they are off doing their own thing , that if they don't complain then everything must be going well , " said Kim . Many Asian Americans don't speak up , he acknowledged , " because they don't think anything will happen or that anyone will care , " leading to greater feelings of isolation . " Many in the Asian community struggle , " said Chen . " Sometimes when I think of this tragedy ( the Atlanta shootings ) I get angry , because did it take this happening for people to realize Asian Americans deserve attention ? " " It dodges the real problem we have , " said Nina Gao , president of the Asian American Alliance of South Jersey and Shanghai native who lives in Cherry Hill . " It is a way to wedge us out of the mainstream : You can take care of yourselves , you all live in these Chinatowns . We give you this glorious title , but it keeps us away , it makes us feel very foreign . " " We're thought of as self - supporting and people who make a lot of money , and that makes us targets , " said Wen Gu , a librarian from Cherry Hill . " Many Americans don't want to take the time to really learn about us , so they lump us all together , " said Gao , who is on the faculty of Rutgers University's biomedical and health services department . " They think we are all the same , we all eat weird food and speak a weird language , that we are not Americans . " " People don't notice us because we keep our heads down and we work hard , " said Doris Zheng , a 21 - year - old Rutgers - Camden student . Her family emigrated from a small city in Southeast China more than 20 years ago ; her father is a chef and her mother is a home health aide . Zheng , vice president of the university's Student Government Association , said she's supportive of Black and brown people's struggles with systemic racism in American . " But Asian Americans are often hidden , in the dark , and there's this idea that we're smart and work hard and we don't need any help . " There's this perception of us as prim and proper and perfect . We seem to be doing fine , but really that's because we are working so damn hard . " The model minority idea , she noted , is not only damaging to Asians - it also minimizes the very real problems faced by Black and brown Americans , making others think they should overcome obstacles as well as Asians do , without understanding the differences in their histories , and the kinds of racism they encounter . Is Atlanta a tipping point ? Kim pointed to " this moment of mourning " for the victims of the Atlanta shootings - and initial news of the shootings , which first characterized the shooter's sex addiction as a motive , drawing a strong backlash - as an event that brought the problem of anti - Asian hate to light . - In a February address to the nation to acknowledge the loss of 500,000 Americans to COVID - 19 , President Joe Biden urged an end to attacks on Asian Americans , Kim noted . The President and Vice President Kamala Harris met with Asian American leaders in Atlanta on March 19 . " People have told me they finally feel heard and seen , " said Kim . " The question now is , is it going to be sustained , even after this tragedy falls out of the spotlight ? Is this something durable that can lead to change ? Many of us have been calling for that for at least a year . " " What bothers me about Atlanta is blaming a hate crime on a sex addiction , which this is clearly not , " said Gao . " This was obviously targeting Asian women . " Jinwei Cao recalled an incident in June , when apartment residents in Newark , Delaware , found fliers that said " Kill Chinese virus " at their doors . The incident rattled students at the University of Delaware , where Cao teaches . While she was satisfied with the police and university responses to the fliers , she said " it was really unacceptable . " " The Atlanta shootings , I heard from so many friends and students who felt like this is a breaking point , " said Gao . "It's threatening our very existence in this country."
Stepping up and weighing next steps
Edward Wang said he's been in conference calls with other Asian American groups nationwide.
There is talk of a national march, like the Black Lives Matter marches that took place in the wake of the George Floyd killing in May.
-
-
He's hoping more attention from politicians, policymakers, media and educators will lead to more knowledge of the struggles of Asian Americans, as well as a greater
appreciation of their many different cultures, histories and contributions.
Asian Americans, like so many other Americans, have stepped up to help in myriad ways during the pandemic.
"There are so many Asian Americans on the front lines," said Kim. "Like the very large community of Filipino American nurses. Doctors. Small business owners."
The Asian American Alliance of South Jersey has organized food giveaways and collected donations for personal protective equipment to hospitals and first responders,
its members said. They've delivered meals to local police departments and helped furloughed workers.
Xiaoping Ma, a physician who lives in Cherry Hill, heard alarming news from her native Wuhan, China, as the virus began to spread there. She recalls being among the
first to always wear a face mask, warning others to do the same, and hearing the fear and desperation from friends, family and medical school classmates there.
She helped organize donation drives through the Chinese American Physicians Association, connected with colleagues in Wuhan as they learned more about how to
contain the virus, sharing information and insight - all while dealing with her own fear for family members and fellow medical professionals here and in Wuhan.
Ma, who has been in the United States since 1989 and has been a citizen since the 1990s, said she felt guilty that Wuhan was the place where the virus originated
but angry at the way it was characterized here.
"When the previous president called it 'the China virus,' the 'Wuhan virus,' it made me so angry, so afraid. How can an American president be so uneducated and say
those things? But I tried to stay anchored on my work."
"We want people to know we are part of the community," said Gao.
"I see a lot of hope; a lot of people have reached out" to show support, said Sharon Xiaoyun Hou. She's received support from the University of Pennsylvania, where she
works. "People checked in on me to see if I was OK, and that shows me how most of the people in America really are."
Ma said her running group, which includes Black, white, gay, straight and Asian runners, rallied around her. Running and a new Peloton bike have been her primary stress.
relievers, she said. "I don't think I've ever run so much as I have the last year."
"Although many of us are first generation (immigrants), we are all United States citizens," said Li.
"We love this country and we want it to be better."
Phaedra Trethan has been a reporter and editor in South Jersey since 2007 and has covered Camden since 2015. She's called South Jersey home since 1971 and is the
proud granddaughter of a Filipino immigrant. Contact her with feedback, news tips or questions at ptrethan@gannettnj.com, on Twitter @By_Phaedra, or by phone at
856.486-2417.
Help support local journalism with a Courier-Post subscription.
Copyright 2021 - THE DAILY JOURNAL - All Rights Reserved.
Subject
Location
People
Title
Author
Publication title
First page
Publication
year
Publication date
Section
Publisher
Place of publication
Country of publication
Publication subject
Source type
Language of publication
Document type
ProQuest document ID
Document URL
Copyright
Last updated
Database
Asian Americans;
Racism;
Minority & ethnic groups;
Coronaviruses;
COVID-19
China; United States--US; Atlanta Georgia
Floyd, George
SJ Asian Americans express fear, resolve
Trethan, Phaedra
Daily Journal; Vineland, N.J.
A.5
2021
Apr 9, 2021
News
Gannett Media Corp
Vineland, N.J.
United States, Vineland, N.J.
General Interest Periodicals--United States
Newspaper
English
News
2510010540
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sj-asian-americans-express-fear-
resolve/docview/2510010540/se-2?accountid=10345
Copyright 2021 - THE DAILY JOURNAL - All Rights Reserved.
2021-04-09
Global Newsstream
Bibliography
Citation style: APA 7th American Psychological Association, 7th Edition
-
Trethan, P. (2021, Apr 09). SJ Asian Americans express fear, resolve. Daily Journal https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sj-asian-
americans-express-fear-resolve/docview/2510010540/se-2?accountid=10345
Database copyright 2022 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved. Terms and Conditions " It's threatening our very existence in this country . " Stepping up and weighing next steps Edward Wang said he's been in conference calls with other Asian American groups nationwide . There is talk of a national march , like the Black Lives Matter marches that took place in the wake of the George Floyd killing in May . - - He's hoping more attention from politicians , policymakers , media and educators will lead to more knowledge of the struggles of Asian Americans , as well as a greater appreciation of their many different cultures , histories and contributions . Asian Americans , like so many other Americans , have stepped up to help in myriad ways during the pandemic . " There are so many Asian Americans on the front lines , " said Kim . " Like the very large community of Filipino American nurses . Doctors . Small business owners . " The Asian American Alliance of South Jersey has organized food giveaways and collected donations for personal protective equipment to hospitals and first responders , its members said . They've delivered meals to local police departments and helped furloughed workers . Xiaoping Ma , a physician who lives in Cherry Hill , heard alarming news from her native Wuhan , China , as the virus began to spread there . She recalls being among the first to always wear a face mask , warning others to do the same , and hearing the fear and desperation from friends , family and medical school classmates there . She helped organize donation drives through the Chinese American Physicians Association , connected with colleagues in Wuhan as they learned more about how to contain the virus , sharing information and insight - all while dealing with her own fear for family members and fellow medical professionals here and in Wuhan . Ma , who has been in the United States since 1989 and has been a citizen since the 1990s , said she felt guilty that Wuhan was the place where the virus originated but angry at the way it was characterized here . " When the previous president called it ' the China virus , ' the ' Wuhan virus , ' it made me so angry , so afraid . How can an American president be so uneducated and say those things ? But I tried to stay anchored on my work . " " We want people to know we are part of the community , " said Gao . " I see a lot of hope ; a lot of people have reached out " to show support , said Sharon Xiaoyun Hou . She's received support from the University of Pennsylvania , where she works . " People checked in on me to see if I was OK , and that shows me how most of the people in America really are . " Ma said her running group , which includes Black , white , gay , straight and Asian runners , rallied around her . Running and a new Peloton bike have been her primary stress . relievers , she said . " I don't think I've ever run so much as I have the last year . " " Although many of us are first generation ( immigrants ) , we are all United States citizens , " said Li . " We love this country and we want it to be better . " Phaedra Trethan has been a reporter and editor in South Jersey since 2007 and has covered Camden since 2015. She's called South Jersey home since 1971 and is the proud granddaughter of a Filipino immigrant . Contact her with feedback , news tips or questions at ptrethan@gannettnj.com , on Twitter @By_Phaedra , or by phone at 856.486-2417 . Help support local journalism with a Courier - Post subscription . Copyright 2021 - THE DAILY JOURNAL - All Rights Reserved . Subject Location People Title Author Publication title First page Publication year Publication date Section Publisher Place of publication Country of publication Publication subject Source type Language of publication Document type ProQuest document ID Document URL Copyright Last updated Database Asian Americans ; Racism ; Minority & ethnic groups ; Coronaviruses ; COVID - 19 China ; United States -- US ; Atlanta Georgia Floyd , George SJ Asian Americans express fear , resolve Trethan , Phaedra Daily Journal ; Vineland , N.J. A.5 2021 Apr 9 , 2021 News Gannett Media Corp Vineland , N.J. United States , Vineland , N.J. General Interest Periodicals -- United States Newspaper English News 2510010540 https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sj-asian-americans-express-fear- resolve / docview / 2510010540 / se - 2 ? accountid = 10345 Copyright 2021 - THE DAILY JOURNAL - All Rights Reserved . 2021-04-09 Global Newsstream Bibliography Citation style : APA 7th American Psychological Association , 7th Edition - Trethan , P. ( 2021 , Apr 09 ) . SJ Asian Americans express fear , resolve . Daily Journal https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/sj-asian- americans - express - fear - resolve / docview / 2510010540 / se - 2 ? accountid = 10345 Database copyright 2022 ProQuest LLC . All rights reserved . Terms and Conditions 