ProQuest
document 1 of 1
Full Text |Newspaper
Prejudice & pride; Asian-American celebs speak out about the rising tide of hate, vow they'll never accept it as the norm
Dillon, N. (2021, Apr 18). Prejudice & pride; Asian-American celebs speak out about the rising tide of hate, vow they'll never accept it as the norm. New York Daily
News https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/prejudice-amp-pride-asian-american-celebs-speak/docview/2515150336/se-2?
accountid=10345
Find a copy
Check One Search for Availability
http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88-
2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev: mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anortheastnews1&atitle=Prejudice+%26amp%3B+pride%3B+Asian-
American+celebs+speak+out+about+the+rising +tide+of+hate%2C+vow+they%2711+never+accept+it+as+the+norm&title=New+York+Daily+News&issn=&date=2021-
04-18&volume=&issue=&spage=CS.4&au=Dillon%2C+Nancy&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Daily+News&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/
Abstract
None available.
Full Text
Bigotry and brutality targeting Asian-Americans has spiked over the past year as racist rhetoric linked to the coronavirus pandemic soared.
Verbal harassment, shunning, spitting and violent physical assault were among the 3,795 incidents reported by victims nationwide since last March, according to
Stop AAPI Hate.
Anti-Asian hate crimes reported to the NYPD skyrocketed 833% last year compared with 2019, with three anti-Asian crimes reported in 2019 and 28 in 2020. The
latest anti-Asian numbers, as of this April 11, saw 54 anti-Asian hate crimes reported to the NYDP, compared with 12 by that date in 2020 - an increase of 350%.
Last month, Brandon Elliot, 38, was hit with an assault as a hate crime charge after he was caught on video stomping on Vilma Kari, 65, on a Hell's Kitchen
sidewalk. "F-k you," he allegedly told the Filipino woman. "You don't belong here." Video released by police ends with a doorman who witnessed the horrific
incident closing his building door and the attacker walking away.
Across America's 16 largest cities, reported cases of anti-Asian hate and discrimination surged 145%, while overall hate crimes fell 6%, the Center for the Study of
Hate and Extremism reported.
Former President Donald Trump added fuel to the fire by calling COVID-19 the "Chinese Virus" and "Kung Flu."
In a dozen recent interviews with prominent members of the Asian-American and Pacific Islander community in fields of film, TV, theater, fashion and music,
heartache over the rising tide was undeniable, as was recognition the U.S. has a long history of minimizing anti-Asian discrimination.
Comedian Margaret Cho said last month's slaughter of eight people, including six Asian women, at three Asian spas in metro Atlanta was a "devastating" inflection
point.
Here, Cho and the other famous figures share their personal ex periences with discrimination and their reactions to the recent spate of bigoted terror.
David Henry Hwang
Playwright
"A few years ago, I was stabbed in the neck by an unknown assailant around 9 p.m. on my block in Brooklyn. The attacker severed my vertebral artery and I lost
one-third of my blood. I managed to walk a few blocks to Brooklyn Hospital, where doctors there saved my life. The NYPD did not label my attack a hate crime, but
New York state Assembly member Ron Kim (D-Queens) called a press conference to denounce anti-Asian hate and violence.
"The current wave of AAPI attacks is nothing new. Because Asians have always been stereotyped as perpetual foreigners, our well-being has always been a
function of America's relationship with Asian nations. The big lie of American racism is that if you do everything right and play by the rules, you will be accepted in
this country. But the U.S. throughout its history has consistently betrayed this 'model minority' myth, used by the right wing to drive a wedge between AAPIs and
our natural Black, Indigenous and people of color allies. We are painfully reminded once again that white supremacy can never be defeated by accommodation, only
through organized opposition and progressive activism."
Margaret Cho
Actress and comedian
"For me as an Asian-American artist, comedian, actor, it's really more about noninclusion. It's really about being very invisible within Hollywood, within the media,
and it's hard to kind of understand how to even talk about invisibility because it's, like, invisible. It's very weird when you're just excluded from the conversation
and you're trying to be in an industry that doesn't see you. It's the most insidious kind of racism because it's this feeling of nonexistence. It combines erasure with ProQuest document 1 of 1 Full Text | Newspaper Prejudice & pride ; Asian - American celebs speak out about the rising tide of hate , vow they'll never accept it as the norm Dillon , N. ( 2021 , Apr 18 ) . Prejudice & pride ; Asian - American celebs speak out about the rising tide of hate , vow they'll never accept it as the norm . New York Daily News https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/prejudice-amp-pride-asian-american-celebs-speak/docview/2515150336/se-2 ? accountid = 10345 Find a copy Check One Search for Availability http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88- 2004 & rft_val_fmt = info : ofi / fmt : kev : mtx : journal & genre = article & sid = ProQ : ProQ % 3Anortheastnews1 & atitle = Prejudice + % 26amp % 3B + pride % 3B + Asian- American + celebs + speak + out + about + the + rising + tide + of + hate % 2C + vow + they % 2711 + never + accept + it + as + the + norm & title = New + York + Daily + News & issn = & date = 2021- 04-18 & volume = & issue = & spage = CS.4 & au = Dillon % 2C + Nancy & isbn = & jtitle = New + York + Daily + News & btitle = & rft_id = info : eric / & rft_id = info : doi / Abstract None available . Full Text Bigotry and brutality targeting Asian - Americans has spiked over the past year as racist rhetoric linked to the coronavirus pandemic soared . Verbal harassment , shunning , spitting and violent physical assault were among the 3,795 incidents reported by victims nationwide since last March , according to Stop AAPI Hate . Anti - Asian hate crimes reported to the NYPD skyrocketed 833 % last year compared with 2019 , with three anti - Asian crimes reported in 2019 and 28 in 2020. The latest anti - Asian numbers , as of this April 11 , saw 54 anti - Asian hate crimes reported to the NYDP , compared with 12 by that date in 2020 - an increase of 350 % . Last month , Brandon Elliot , 38 , was hit with an assault as a hate crime charge after he was caught on video stomping on Vilma Kari , 65 , on a Hell's Kitchen sidewalk . " F - k you , " he allegedly told the Filipino woman . " You don't belong here . " Video released by police ends with a doorman who witnessed the horrific incident closing his building door and the attacker walking away . Across America's 16 largest cities , reported cases of anti - Asian hate and discrimination surged 145 % , while overall hate crimes fell 6 % , the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism reported . Former President Donald Trump added fuel to the fire by calling COVID - 19 the " Chinese Virus " and " Kung Flu . " In a dozen recent interviews with prominent members of the Asian - American and Pacific Islander community in fields of film , TV , theater , fashion and music , heartache over the rising tide was undeniable , as was recognition the U.S. has a long history of minimizing anti - Asian discrimination . Comedian Margaret Cho said last month's slaughter of eight people , including six Asian women , at three Asian spas in metro Atlanta was a " devastating " inflection point . Here , Cho and the other famous figures share their personal ex periences with discrimination and their reactions to the recent spate of bigoted terror . David Henry Hwang Playwright " A few years ago , I was stabbed in the neck by an unknown assailant around 9 p.m. on my block in Brooklyn . The attacker severed my vertebral artery and I lost one - third of my blood . I managed to walk a few blocks to Brooklyn Hospital , where doctors there saved my life . The NYPD did not label my attack a hate crime , but New York state Assembly member Ron Kim ( D - Queens ) called a press conference to denounce anti - Asian hate and violence . " The current wave of AAPI attacks is nothing new . Because Asians have always been stereotyped as perpetual foreigners , our well - being has always been a function of America's relationship with Asian nations . The big lie of American racism is that if you do everything right and play by the rules , you will be accepted in this country . But the U.S. throughout its history has consistently betrayed this ' model minority ' myth , used by the right wing to drive a wedge between AAPIs and our natural Black , Indigenous and people of color allies . We are painfully reminded once again that white supremacy can never be defeated by accommodation , only through organized opposition and progressive activism . " Margaret Cho Actress and comedian " For me as an Asian - American artist , comedian , actor , it's really more about noninclusion . It's really about being very invisible within Hollywood , within the media , and it's hard to kind of understand how to even talk about invisibility because it's , like , invisible . It's very weird when you're just excluded from the conversation and you're trying to be in an industry that doesn't see you . It's the most insidious kind of racism because it's this feeling of nonexistence . It combines erasure with a kind of gaslighting that we don't matter or we don't make any impression. And the truth is, we've made a huge contribution to American life. We've been here
since 1849, yet still somehow we are seen as 'other,' or not part of America, so this has to change.
"I was a resident of Atlanta for seven years. I know exactly all of those spas and the neighborhoods and the communities. They're very familiar to me. The fact that
law enforcement was really bending over backwards to try to humanize the murderer was really disturbing. And not categorizing this as a hate crime is part of the
problem.
"You don't ask somebody who's committed a hate crime whether or not it's a hate crime. It's not something that's up to their opinion.... It is a hate crime when
you're targeting Asian women who you say make you feel a certain way so you're
going to kill them.... Why would he specifically seek out Asian spas, Asian-owned spas, Asian-run spas in three different locations in order to kill Asian women if
race isn't a factor? That to me is clearly a hate crime against Asians and Asian women in particular. It has nothing to do with sex addiction. Lots of people are
saying these are sex workers. I was a sex worker. I know what sex work is. This to me seems more likeskin care and aestheticians. The women were mostly 50,
60, 70. This was not a typical idea of what people think of as sex workers or Asian sex workers. The framing of this as a crime by a sex addict who wanted to kill
sex workers, it's not exactly that. There's a lot of projection happening onto this crime that has to do with the inherent racism that exists in society around Asian
women.
"I'm grateful to the hashtags #StopAAPIHate and #StopAsian Hate. All of these movements are really important, and they really connect us in way that is really new
and really vital and really effective."
BD Wong
Actor
"I try really hard to look at these kinds of things in a big-picture kind of way. Even though it's very hard when you are part of the group that's either being targeted
or subject to these incidents. In my lifetime, I don't really remember it being quite like this: Where the conversation that ensues is a really positive and important
one. But the pain that it is in response to is incredibly intense. Asian people are really known for a kind of reservation when it comes to calling attention to
themselves and their problems in a somewhat cultural way. And that's a very broad statement of course there are plenty of Asian-American people who do not do
this - but equally I think there's a tradition of choosing to let things slide. For me what it is is kind of watching people in my community - who I think of as very
strong and very able to be resilient - to see them really challenged by these events is very worrisome. And your heart breaks for them. Because it's also
unnecessary. I don't understand who has it in them to actually push an old lady in the street."
Jason Wu
Designer" I often ask myself why I have not spoken up about this topic in the past. It is perhaps due to my Asian upbringing where we were taught to keep our
heads down, work hard and avoid confrontation. I believe it is now time to bring all of the underlying issues to the surface and for us to speak up and acknowledge
the grossly overlooked history of racism against the AAPI communit".
I spent most of my life being insecure about myself because the Western standard of beauty has always reigned supreme. As a proud Asian man today, I am done
with being silent and the 'model minority' - the time for action is n"w.
Jennifer Cheon Garcia
Actres"
There is no turning away from seeing all the violence happening to our AAPI and POC communities. But why would you/we want to? You/we need to see it to
change it. We need to see the enemy we are fighting. This fight will be long. It will be ongo"n.
Remember to look after yourself, and the people you love. Surround yourselves with your allies, the people that have your ba"k.
Tiffany Moon
'Real Housewives of Dallas' star
"I immigrated to the United States when I was 6 years old and life was incredibly difficult, mainly because my parents were constantly working, and I started first
grade without knowing any English. I was called names, had my facial features mocked, and sometimes was pushed or hit. I once even had my eyeglasses
stomped on by a classmate"
As I learned English and made friends, the overt racism and physical bullying subsided, but (it) transformed into an undercurrent of racism and microaggressions
that I still feel to this day. 'Wow, you're really pretty... foran Asian girl.' 'Your name isn't really Tiffany. What's your real name?' 'You eat feet? That sounds disgusting"
When I was 14, I began working as a hostess at a Chinese restaurant. One Friday a group of kids came in to dine and one of the boys started calling me 'egg roll,'
which was offensive but I never said anything abou" it.
Tisha Custodio
Actress
Xenophobic violence against the Asian community is not new. I'm tired of witnessing me or my friends' Asian culture be the brunt of jokes. I'm tired of reading
headlines of senseless mass shootings directed toward my community. I'm tired of feeling immense pain when thinking about the families who have unexpectedly
and undeservingly lost their loved ones. I think this rise in hate crimes should be a catalyst for everyone to do research and start conversations to help fix this
long-standing pro "lem.
Ali Ewoldt
Broadway star" As an actor, I am grateful that I can help generate understanding and empathy for the characters I play, historical and fictional. As an actor of mixed
race (Filipino and white), I acknowledge that my somewhat ambiguous features have allowed me to play a variety of roles that may not have been available to my
fully Asian counterparts. But I know that it was seeing Lea Salonga, a fellow Filipina, play Eponine in 'Les Miserables' on Broadway when I was a child that inspired
me to believe that I, too, could maybe have a career in musical tha er. a kind of gaslighting that we don't matter or we don't make any impression . And the truth is , we've made a huge contribution to American life . We've been here since 1849 , yet still somehow we are seen as ' other , ' or not part of America , so this has to change . " I was a resident of Atlanta for seven years . I know exactly all of those spas and the neighborhoods and the communities . They're very familiar to me . The fact that law enforcement was really bending over backwards to try to humanize the murderer was really disturbing . And not categorizing this as a hate crime is part of the problem . " You don't ask somebody who's committed a hate crime whether or not it's a hate crime . It's not something that's up to their opinion .... It is a hate crime when you're targeting Asian women who you say make you feel a certain way so you're going to kill them .... Why would he specifically seek out Asian spas , Asian - owned spas , Asian - run spas in three different locations in order to kill Asian women if race isn't a factor ? That to me is clearly a hate crime against Asians and Asian women in particular . It has nothing to do with sex addiction . Lots of people are saying these are sex workers . I was a sex worker . I know what sex work is . This to me seems more likeskin care and aestheticians . The women were mostly 50 , 60 , 70. This was not a typical idea of what people think of as sex workers or Asian sex workers . The framing of this as a crime by a sex addict who wanted to kill sex workers , it's not exactly that . There's a lot of projection happening onto this crime that has to do with the inherent racism that exists in society around Asian women . " I'm grateful to the hashtags #StopAAPIHate and #StopAsian Hate . All of these movements are really important , and they really connect us in way that is really new and really vital and really effective . " BD Wong Actor " I try really hard to look at these kinds of things in a big - picture kind of way . Even though it's very hard when you are part of the group that's either being targeted or subject to these incidents . In my lifetime , I don't really remember it being quite like this : Where the conversation that ensues is a really positive and important one . But the pain that it is in response to is incredibly intense . Asian people are really known for a kind of reservation when it comes to calling attention to themselves and their problems in a somewhat cultural way . And that's a very broad statement of course there are plenty of Asian - American people who do not do this - but equally I think there's a tradition of choosing to let things slide . For me what it is is kind of watching people in my community - who I think of as very strong and very able to be resilient - to see them really challenged by these events is very worrisome . And your heart breaks for them . Because it's also unnecessary . I don't understand who has it in them to actually push an old lady in the street . " Jason Wu Designer " I often ask myself why I have not spoken up about this topic in the past . It is perhaps due to my Asian upbringing where we were taught to keep our heads down , work hard and avoid confrontation . I believe it is now time to bring all of the underlying issues to the surface and for us to speak up and acknowledge the grossly overlooked history of racism against the AAPI communit " . I spent most of my life being insecure about myself because the Western standard of beauty has always reigned supreme . As a proud Asian man today , I am done with being silent and the ' model minority ' - the time for action is n " w . Jennifer Cheon Garcia Actres " There is no turning away from seeing all the violence happening to our AAPI and POC communities . But why would you / we want to ? You / we need to see it to change it . We need to see the enemy we are fighting . This fight will be long . It will be ongo " n . Remember to look after yourself , and the people you love . Surround yourselves with your allies , the people that have your ba " k . Tiffany Moon ' Real Housewives of Dallas ' star " I immigrated to the United States when I was 6 years old and life was incredibly difficult , mainly because my parents were constantly working , and I started first grade without knowing any English . I was called names , had my facial features mocked , and sometimes was pushed or hit . I once even had my eyeglasses stomped on by a classmate " As I learned English and made friends , the overt racism and physical bullying subsided , but ( it ) transformed into an undercurrent of racism and microaggressions that I still feel to this day . ' Wow , you're really pretty ... foran Asian girl . ' ' Your name isn't really Tiffany . What's your real name ? ' ' You eat feet ? That sounds disgusting " When I was 14 , I began working as a hostess at a Chinese restaurant . One Friday a group of kids came in to dine and one of the boys started calling me ' egg roll , ' which was offensive but I never said anything abou " it . Tisha Custodio Actress Xenophobic violence against the Asian community is not new . I'm tired of witnessing me or my friends ' Asian culture be the brunt of jokes . I'm tired of reading headlines of senseless mass shootings directed toward my community . I'm tired of feeling immense pain when thinking about the families who have unexpectedly and undeservingly lost their loved ones . I think this rise in hate crimes should be a catalyst for everyone to do research and start conversations to help fix this long - standing pro " lem . Ali Ewoldt Broadway star " As an actor , I am grateful that I can help generate understanding and empathy for the characters I play , historical and fictional . As an actor of mixed race ( Filipino and white ) , I acknowledge that my somewhat ambiguous features have allowed me to play a variety of roles that may not have been available to my fully Asian counterparts . But I know that it was seeing Lea Salonga , a fellow Filipina , play Eponine in ' Les Miserables ' on Broadway when I was a child that inspired me to believe that I , too , could maybe have a career in musical tha er . This importance of representation was reinforced when I became the first Asian-American to play Christine in "The Phantom of the Opera' on Broadway after nearly
29 years of exclusively white Christines. I received letters, messages online and greetings at the stage door from young people who had previously felt excluded
from opportunities like playing classic leading roles on Broadway because they were of Asian des "ent.
Kelly Choi
TV personality and host
"When I went to elementary school in Virginia, the first day of class was always a major source of stress for me because every single one of my new teachers
would pronounce my last name like, 'Chow.' I would then have to politely correct him/her, but the embarrassment and shame that I felt when all the eyes of the
entire class turned to look at me was almost unbearable"
To this day, I still don't understand how learned adults pronounced my name that way, but I chalk it up to innocent ignorance. But what happened to me a couple
of weeks ago at the 23rd St. subway station wasn't innocent. While waiting for the R train on a pretty deserted end of the platform, I heard a guy walking towards
me who started yelling, 'Six feet, b--h, si" f et!'
I dared not look up, I was scared. 'Was he talking to me? Was he screaming what I thought he was screaming to ME?" He hollered those words again, so I began
walking the opposite way, passing him quickly while staring intently down at my phone. 'Please don't do anything to me,' I prayed. I was terrified he might push me
into the tracks because there have been a few such incidents reported recently in the news. In all my years living in New York City, both as a student and a working
professional, I had never felt unsafe, unti" now.
Sophia Chang
Screenwriter and auth"r
I weep for the victims, their families, us. Please spare me your hand-wringing cries of 'This is not who we are.' 'This is not America.' 'We're better tha" t is."
If you think the heinous murders of the six Asian women in Atlanta were not about race, you don't understand the narrative written by white patriarchy that has
historically fetishized, eroticized and exoticized me and my sisters. Furthermore, if you buy into the framing that it's Black folks perpetrating all these crimes and
take this opportunity to question the allyship of the Black community, you are nothing more than a pawn of white supr"macy.
Philip Lim
Design"r
As a New Yorker and an Asian-American myself, I struggle in frustration and sadness watching this misguided manifestation of hate ravaging our community that is
so vital and essential to the beautiful diversity that makes New York. It is difficult enough that we are all experiencing and navigating through a COVID-19
pandemic, but imagine also having to deal with a parallel second pandemic based off the hate of your skin color, your eye shape, the language you speak or the
culture that runs deep in you" ve ns?
I ask you as a New Yorker, a fellow human being, will you stand with me? Will you stand with the Asian-American community, your fellow Americans to
#StopAsia "Hate.
Joshua Dela Cruz, theater acto"
What's devious about white supremacy is that fail-safes "lik "he mode" mi ority were created to ensure infighting. Infighting that ensures true solidarity, tolerance
and equality will fail. This is not my struggle. This is not your struggle. This is OUR str"ggle.
Priya Darshini
Singer
It's been immensely painful, yet not surprising to watch this surge in unfounded and targeted hatred towards Asians, especially the elderly and women. If there
was ever an opportunity to overcome our differences and come together as a collective humanity, this pandemic was it. And yet, once again, so many have chosen.
to give into fear, depravity and have followed mindless hateful political rhetoric. These destructive voices are only getting louder, and have amplified this state of
emergency that America has been in for so long. What so many people in America still don't want to see is that America stands on the shoulders of immigrants, and
that its beauty lies in its diversity. Alienating and othering people will eventually leave America standing empty, all alone and devoid of it" soul.
Clint Ramos
Costume designer
-
Although we are not a monolith - there are 48 countries in Asia we are a large continent. And we are holding ourselves together. But I also wanna say that a lot
of what is happening is not brand new... this is not an aberration. This is not just because of COVID. This is just not because there was a president that was
xenophobic. This has been happening for a long time. Like the way the dehumanization of Asians and Asian-Americans in this country, and particularly in the
Western world, but particularly in this country. I want to encourage Asian-Americans to actually think about those values that we were taught that no longer serve
us. Right? The values of like don't say anything, head down, just keep on working. That contributed to our invisibility, that contributed to us not being seen as
human beings. Say something. Express your pain. Express your feelings.
Copyright Tribune Publishing Company, LLC Apr 18, 2021
Subject
Business indexing term
Comedians;
Workers;
Hate crimes;
Racism;
Minority & ethnic groups;
Violence;
Asian Americans;
Actors;
Coronaviruses;
Sex industry;
COVID-19
Subject:
Workers This importance of representation was reinforced when I became the first Asian - American to play Christine in " The Phantom of the Opera ' on Broadway after nearly 29 years of exclusively white Christines . I received letters , messages online and greetings at the stage door from young people who had previously felt excluded from opportunities like playing classic leading roles on Broadway because they were of Asian des " ent . Kelly Choi TV personality and host " When I went to elementary school in Virginia , the first day of class was always a major source of stress for me because every single one of my new teachers would pronounce my last name like , ' Chow . ' I would then have to politely correct him / her , but the embarrassment and shame that I felt when all the eyes of the entire class turned to look at me was almost unbearable " To this day , I still don't understand how learned adults pronounced my name that way , but I chalk it up to innocent ignorance . But what happened to me a couple of weeks ago at the 23rd St. subway station wasn't innocent . While waiting for the R train on a pretty deserted end of the platform , I heard a guy walking towards me who started yelling , ' Six feet , b -- h , si " f et ! ' I dared not look up , I was scared . ' Was he talking to me ? Was he screaming what I thought he was screaming to ME ? " He hollered those words again , so I began walking the opposite way , passing him quickly while staring intently down at my phone . ' Please don't do anything to me , ' I prayed . I was terrified he might push me into the tracks because there have been a few such incidents reported recently in the news . In all my years living in New York City , both as a student and a working professional , I had never felt unsafe , unti " now . Sophia Chang Screenwriter and auth " r I weep for the victims , their families , us . Please spare me your hand - wringing cries of ' This is not who we are . ' ' This is not America . ' ' We're better tha " t is . " If you think the heinous murders of the six Asian women in Atlanta were not about race , you don't understand the narrative written by white patriarchy that has historically fetishized , eroticized and exoticized me and my sisters . Furthermore , if you buy into the framing that it's Black folks perpetrating all these crimes and take this opportunity to question the allyship of the Black community , you are nothing more than a pawn of white supr " macy . Philip Lim Design " r As a New Yorker and an Asian - American myself , I struggle in frustration and sadness watching this misguided manifestation of hate ravaging our community that is so vital and essential to the beautiful diversity that makes New York . It is difficult enough that we are all experiencing and navigating through a COVID - 19 pandemic , but imagine also having to deal with a parallel second pandemic based off the hate of your skin color , your eye shape , the language you speak or the culture that runs deep in you " ve ns ? I ask you as a New Yorker , a fellow human being , will you stand with me ? Will you stand with the Asian - American community , your fellow Americans to #StopAsia " Hate . Joshua Dela Cruz , theater acto " What's devious about white supremacy is that fail - safes " lik " he mode " mi ority were created to ensure infighting . Infighting that ensures true solidarity , tolerance and equality will fail . This is not my struggle . This is not your struggle . This is OUR str " ggle . Priya Darshini Singer It's been immensely painful , yet not surprising to watch this surge in unfounded and targeted hatred towards Asians , especially the elderly and women . If there was ever an opportunity to overcome our differences and come together as a collective humanity , this pandemic was it . And yet , once again , so many have chosen . to give into fear , depravity and have followed mindless hateful political rhetoric . These destructive voices are only getting louder , and have amplified this state of emergency that America has been in for so long . What so many people in America still don't want to see is that America stands on the shoulders of immigrants , and that its beauty lies in its diversity . Alienating and othering people will eventually leave America standing empty , all alone and devoid of it " soul . Clint Ramos Costume designer - Although we are not a monolith - there are 48 countries in Asia we are a large continent . And we are holding ourselves together . But I also wanna say that a lot of what is happening is not brand new ... this is not an aberration . This is not just because of COVID . This is just not because there was a president that was xenophobic . This has been happening for a long time . Like the way the dehumanization of Asians and Asian - Americans in this country , and particularly in the Western world , but particularly in this country . I want to encourage Asian - Americans to actually think about those values that we were taught that no longer serve us . Right ? The values of like don't say anything , head down , just keep on working . That contributed to our invisibility , that contributed to us not being seen as human beings . Say something . Express your pain . Express your feelings . Copyright Tribune Publishing Company , LLC Apr 18 , 2021 Subject Business indexing term Comedians ; Workers ; Hate crimes ; Racism ; Minority & ethnic groups ; Violence ; Asian Americans ; Actors ; Coronaviruses ; Sex industry ; COVID - 19 Subject : Workers Location
People
Company / organization
Title
Author
Publication title
First page
Publication year
Publication date
Publisher
Place of publication
Country of publication
Publication subject
Source type
Language of publication
Document type
ProQuest document ID
Document URL
Copyright
Last updated
Database
United States--US; Atlanta Georgia
Cho, Margaret
Name:
NAICS:
Police Department-New York City NY
922120
Prejudice & pride; Asian-American celebs speak out about the rising tide of hate, vow they'll never accept it as the norm
Dillon, Nancy
New York Daily News; New York, N.Y.
CS.4
2021
Apr 18, 2021
Tribune Publishing Company, LLC
New York, N.Y.
United States, New York, N.Y.
General Interest Periodicals--United States
Newspaper
English
News
2515150336
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/prejudice-amp-pride-asian-american-celebs-
speak/docview/2515150336/se-2?accountid=10345
Copyright Tribune Publishing Company, LLC Apr 18, 2021
2021-04-20
Global Newsstream
Bibliography
Citation style: APA 7th - American Psychological Association, 7th Edition
Dillon, N. (2021, Apr 18). Prejudice & pride; Asian-American celebs speak out about the rising tide of hate, vow they'll never accept it as the norm. New York Daily
News https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/prejudice-amp-pride-asian-american-celebs-speak/docview/2515150336/se-2?
accountid=10345
Database copyright © 2022 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved. Terms and Conditions Location People Company / organization Title Author Publication title First page Publication year Publication date Publisher Place of publication Country of publication Publication subject Source type Language of publication Document type ProQuest document ID Document URL Copyright Last updated Database United States -- US ; Atlanta Georgia Cho , Margaret Name : NAICS : Police Department - New York City NY 922120 Prejudice & pride ; Asian - American celebs speak out about the rising tide of hate , vow they'll never accept it as the norm Dillon , Nancy New York Daily News ; New York , N.Y. CS.4 2021 Apr 18 , 2021 Tribune Publishing Company , LLC New York , N.Y. United States , New York , N.Y. General Interest Periodicals -- United States Newspaper English News 2515150336 https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/prejudice-amp-pride-asian-american-celebs- speak / docview / 2515150336 / se - 2 ? accountid = 10345 Copyright Tribune Publishing Company , LLC Apr 18 , 2021 2021-04-20 Global Newsstream Bibliography Citation style : APA 7th - American Psychological Association , 7th Edition Dillon , N. ( 2021 , Apr 18 ) . Prejudice & pride ; Asian - American celebs speak out about the rising tide of hate , vow they'll never accept it as the norm . New York Daily News https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/prejudice-amp-pride-asian-american-celebs-speak/docview/2515150336/se-2 ? accountid = 10345 Database copyright © 2022 ProQuest LLC . All rights reserved . Terms and Conditions 