Full Text | Newspaper
Man Shouts anti-Asian Slurs at a Stop anti-Asian Hate Rally
Tamanaha, Akemi. AsAmNews; San Francisco [San Francisco]. 26 May 2021.
AsAmNews
Full text
Details
"
PDF
Save as
PDF
Cite
Email Print
All
Options
Full Text
Turn on search term navigation
0:00/0:00 ◄
Screenshot of Patrick Liu's Facebook videoA Facebook video of a man shouting anti-Asian slurs at a Stop
Asian Hate rally in Richmond, Canada Sunday has surfaced, CTV News reports.
Patrick Liu recorded the incident on his phone and posted the video to Facebook.
Protestors say that the man argued with one of the volunteers and told them to go back to China if they loved
the Chinese government so much.
In the video, the man can be heard saying things like: "you're no longer in China," "you're no different than any
other culture, you're not special and you give that impression" and "if you want us to live like you're still in
China, stay in China. You can eat Chinese food, read Chinese books." Full Text | Newspaper Man Shouts anti - Asian Slurs at a Stop anti - Asian Hate Rally Tamanaha , Akemi . AsAmNews ; San Francisco [ San Francisco ] . 26 May 2021 . AsAmNews Full text Details " PDF Save as PDF Cite Email Print All Options Full Text Turn on search term navigation 0 : 00/0 : 00 ◄ Screenshot of Patrick Liu's Facebook videoA Facebook video of a man shouting anti - Asian slurs at a Stop Asian Hate rally in Richmond , Canada Sunday has surfaced , CTV News reports . Patrick Liu recorded the incident on his phone and posted the video to Facebook . Protestors say that the man argued with one of the volunteers and told them to go back to China if they loved the Chinese government so much . In the video , the man can be heard saying things like : " you're no longer in China , " " you're no different than any other culture , you're not special and you give that impression " and " if you want us to live like you're still in China , stay in China . You can eat Chinese food , read Chinese books . " The incident has been reported to the Richmond police.
Word count: 133
Copyright AsAmNews May 26, 2021
CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY
BAKERSFIELD
Walter W. Stiern Library
Copyright 2022 ProQuest LLC. The incident has been reported to the Richmond police . Word count : 133 Copyright AsAmNews May 26 , 2021 CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY BAKERSFIELD Walter W. Stiern Library Copyright 2022 ProQuest LLC . 