 
PANDEMIC OF HATE 
 
Krauss, Louis . The Register - Guard ; Eugene, Or. [Eugene, Or]30 May 2021: A.1.
  
ProQuest document link
 
  
 
FULL TEXT
 
For Xia Wang, the nationwide uptick in racism and targeted attacks against Asian Americans since the COVID-19
pandemic showed up right away in her north Eugene community. 
Strangers told Wang to "go back to your country," and someone in her neighborhood defaced and stole her front
yard's Black Lives Matter sign three times in one month. 
Unlike others in her neighborhood who are white and have Black Lives Matter signs, she was the only one whose
sign was vandalized, Wang said. 
After her first sign was stolen, a second one was defaced with spray paint, with someone writing "All" in red over
the words in order to make it read "All Lives Matter." 
"After three times, I had to believe I was targeted," said Wang, one of multiple Asian American Lane County
residents who told The Register-Guard they have experienced more racially tinged aggression during the
pandemic. 
"I feel unsafe going out and don't like going outside my neighborhood much anymore," said Wang, 44, who moved
to the U.S. from China in 2012. 
In Lane County, 3.4% of the total population is Asian, according to the latest census data, which doesn't include the
4.6% who identified as two or more races. In Eugene, 4.5% is Asian, compared to 1.6% in Springfield. 
Increase since the pandemic 
National attention on racism against Asian Americans reached a peak in mid-March, when six Asian women were
killed while working in spas and massage parlors in Atlanta, and multiple videos surfaced from across the country
of Asian people being attacked in public. 
At an announcement for the details of the Oregon Asian Celebration that's held in Eugene, David Tam, 45, said he's
experienced more hostility in recent months. 
Sometimes it's joking references to "the kung flu" or the "Wuhan virus" in conversation when talking about COVID-
19, said Tam, who's the event director. 
"Other people are just saying racist comments, and people are trying to avoid you because you're Asian," said Tam,
describing how some take extra steps to keep a distance from him in public because of the misconception that
Asians are more likely to have the virus. 
"I have seen it on multiple levels," said Tam, who was one of the only non-white students in his school growing up
in Depoe Bay. 
"I've had situations of micro-racism that happen more often, to full-on, in-my-face-screaming racism, to almost
physical altercations," he said. 
Wang, interviewed at a march organized by the Lane East Asian Network in April, discussed the nuances of racism
that Asian people experience, such as the effects of being a "model minority." 
Influenced by the stereotype that Asian Americans work harder or are smarter, Wang said Asian people sometimes
doubt that an incident was racist and don't report it because of a perception that they experience less racism and
discrimination than other minorities. 
"They've been thinking, 'OK, we've been treated better by white supremacy because we want to work harder,' so I
think it's people being brainwashed," said Wang, who works as a mental health counselor in Eugene. 
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 1 of 5
"The discrimination toward Asians is different," she said. "For us it's more of an invisible discrimination. There's a
lot of microaggressions." 
'The c-word' 
According to a new study by the Associated Press' NORC Center for Public Affairs Research, 60% of Americans
said they believed that racism against Asian Americans has increased over the past year. 
The prevalence of that opinion varied depending on ethnic groups, with 71% of Asian Americans saying racism had
swelled, compared with 66% of Black Americans, 59% of white Americans and 55% of Hispanic Americans. 
During the march in April, Asian Americans told The Register-Guard they've had numerous experiences with racism
dating back before the pandemic, experiencing everything from slurs to sexual harassment. 
Tomo Tsurumi, an educational assistant at a Chinese immersion school in Eugene, said he's been called the "c-
word" by strangers, despite not being Chinese, since he moved to the U.S. from Japan more than 20 years ago. He
has also been called the "n-word," which Tsurumi said he took as a compliment to be considered Black. 
"Well, it's my honor that they regarded me with my African brothers, but it's just sad they have to offend people by
using that word," said Tsurumi. "Somebody also yelled at me, 'Go back to Thailand.' " 
Eugene, Springfield police: No rise in reported hate crimes 
Neither Springfield nor Eugene has seen a rise in the number of reported hate crimes or incidents against Asian
Americans since the pandemic started, according to city and police representatives. 
But Fabio Andrade, the human rights and equity analyst for the city of Eugene, said just because reports aren't
coming in doesn't mean incidents aren't happening. 
"I have heard through the Human Rights Commission and community meetings people talking about knowing of
people who were victimized or harassed on the street," Andrade said. "But they either didn't feel the need or they
were not willing to come to us and report." 
Eugene's Office of Human Rights and Neighborhood Involvement compiles an annual hate and bias report for the
city, which separates incidents into criminal hate crimes, which are investigated by police, and non-criminal hate
and bias incidents. 
There were a few non-criminal incidents against Asian people in March and April 2020, but Andrade said this year's
report likely won't show any increases when it's released. 
Of the 63 hate crimes recorded in 2020 by Eugene police, none was targeted toward Asians, police spokeswoman
Melinda McLaughlin said. 
Early on in the pandemic, an Asian woman was assaulted, Andrade said, but she told police she didn't want a
report made, and it wasn't investigated or filed as a hate crime. 
"That person decided not to present a report, and our work is victim-centered," Andrade said. "So, for the
community, it may appear like we are not doing work or not trying to report or hiding the case. But that's not the
case, we just follow the victim's direction." 
Eugene's services for victims of hate incidents include linking them with organizations like the Housing Council of
Oregon, which can take people to court if they discriminate or deny someone housing based on their ethnicity. 
Wang said she raised the issue of her "Black Lives Matter" sign being defaced and stolen at a Eugene City Council
meeting, but was disheartened after nothing came of it. 
"It's pretty disappointing," Wang said. "They said, 'Oh, we'll talk about it in work sessions,' but then we never heard
back." 
Following the shooting in Atlanta, Eugene Police Chief Chris Skinner released a statement of solidarity with the
Asian community, reassuring that police communicated with the federal government to make sure there were no
threats, and reminding people that they can report hate crimes online at www.eugene-or.gov/reporthate and over
the phone at 541-682-5177. 
Andrade said his office did not do any specific outreach to the Asian community following the shooting, but said
he was interested in having a campaign to increase awareness of reporting hate crimes in general. 
In Springfield, police Lt. George Crolly said there had also not been any hate crimes or incidents reported against
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 2 of 5
Asians in recent months. 
To provide outreach, Crolly gave a presentation and met with the congregation at the Chinese Christian Church in
Springfield to make sure they were familiar with reporting hate crimes and to make sure there weren't any
unreported hate crimes or concerns. 
"Sometimes because of language barriers or cultural barriers, people may be uncomfortable reporting things to the
police, so I did touch base to make sure that's not going to be a hurdle to overcome," Crolly said. 
He said he also reached out to the University of Oregon to hopefully make a similar presentation to students about
reporting hate crimes. 
Varied opinions on prevalence of racism 
One challenge in identifying racism against Asian Americans is that it's sometimes more subtle when compared to
more highly reported instances of hate graffiti in Eugene and Springfield targeting Black or Jewish people. 
Brian Luck, the Korean owner of the Yi-Shen Market &Restaurant in Eugene, had two of his store windows broken
in, right around the same time in March when videos were surfacing of elderly Asians being attacked in major
cities. 
Luck believes it was a targeted attack against an Asian establishment, because there had been an individual who
was known to vandalize Asian restaurants including his several years ago. 
"This one, the timing was right when those elderly Asians were getting beat up, it felt like it was (targeted), but
there was no other indication to prove that," Luck said. "It was two windows. I mean, it could have been they were
trying to break in and it was targeted for that reason, so, you can only kind of speculate." 
Community members quickly raised more than $4,000 for the window repairs through a GoFundMe page. 
In Luck's opinion, Eugene and Lane County are a much more accepting place of Asian people overall when
compared to other parts of the country, but he also thinks having grown up in the area has helped him out, allowing
him to fit in more easily. 
"I'd say I'm pretty fortunate being raised here, I think I maybe give off different vibes," said Luck, 33. "But I have
dealt with it. I'm sure every Asian my age has at one point or another. ... Most of the clientele here are very friendly
and supportive with these types of causes. I wouldn't even say other than the windows there's been any increase
since everything has been going on." 
Other members of the Asian American and Pacific Islander, or AAPI, community emphasized that each person's
experience will vary. Nikolaj Byrdman, the founder of Lane East Asian Network, was one of several at the march in
April who addressed problems with the over-sexualization of Asian women. 
A decade ago, Byrdman, who uses the pronoun they, recalls being sexually harassed repeatedly by a University of
Oregon student, approaching them while trying to use poor Chinese, then Japanese and Korean to talk to them. 
Because of the lack of response from a police officer Byrdman called, "I just don't trust the police anymore to stand
up for us, especially since we're overly sexualized." 
"I had one police officer when I was harassed (that) when I told him how I was being harassed, sexually harassed,
he laughed at me. He said, 'He's just flirting with you.' " 
Others, such as Tam, said the repeated violence against Asians that is getting more attention nationwide is mostly
creating a sense of caution and wariness among the community. 
"We're all keeping a keener eye and are a little more cautious," Tam said. "But then you also see a lot of the
community stepping up and saying, 'Hey, look, you're my friend, and if something ever happens to you, I want to
know about it because I'm going to be there to stand up for you.' " 
Louis Krauss covers breaking news for The Register-Guard. Contact him at lkrauss@registerguard.com or 541-521-
2498, and follow him on Twitter @LouisKraussNews. 
 
 
DETAILS
 
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 3 of 5
 
LINKS
Check OneSearch for Availability
  
 
Subject:
Hate crimes; Racism; Pandemics; Meetings; Community; Asian Americans;
Shootings; Coronaviruses; Neighborhoods; Human rights; COVID-19
Location:
United States--US Oregon Atlanta Georgia
Company / organization:
Name: Black Lives Matter; NAICS: 813319
Publication title:
The Register - Guard; Eugene, Or.
First page:
A.1
Publication year:
2021
Publication date:
May 30, 2021
Section:
News
Publisher:
Gannett Co., Inc.
Place of publication:
Eugene, Or.
Country of publication:
United States, Eugene, Or.
Publication subject:
General Interest Periodicals--United States
ISSN:
07398557
Source type:
Newspapers
Language of publication:
English
Document type:
News
ProQuest document ID:
2534464800
Document URL:
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/pande
mic-hate/docview/2534464800/se-2?accountid=10345
Copyright:
Copyright 2021 - THE REGISTER GUARD - All Rights Reserved.
Last updated:
2021-05-31
Database:
Global Newsstream
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 4 of 5
Database copyright  2021 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
 
Terms and Conditions   Contact ProQuest
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 5 of 5
