ProQuest
document 1 of 1
Full Text ❘ Newspaper
'I was beaten up, and I didn't understand why': For AAPI community in Rochester, the threat of violence is nothing new
Bell, R., & MacIntyre-Yee, T. (2021, May 30). 'I was beaten up, and I didn't understand why': For AAPI community in Rochester, the threat of violence is nothing new.
Rochester Democrat and Chronicle https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/i-was-beaten-up-didnt-understand-
why/docview/2534017293/se-2?accountid=10345
D&C.
Find a copy
Check One Search for Availability
http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88-
2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev: mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ: ProQ%3Anortheastnews1&atitle=%27I+was+beaten +up%2C+and+I+didn%27t+understand+why%
05-30&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&au=Bell%2C+Robert%3BMacIntyre-
Yee%2C+Tina&isbn=&jtitle=Rochester+Democrat+and+Chronicle &btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/
Abstract
None available.
Full Text
Amid the backdrop of rallies and marches elevating Black lives in America, a wave of violence against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders across the country during the
COVID-19 pandemic also has entered the national conversation. They routinely encounter prejudice that makes them feel like foreigners in their own country, according to
interviews with Asian American and Pacific Islanders who live in Rochester or the surrounding suburbs. Stop AAPI Hate is an advocacy center that tracks and responds to
hate, violence, harassment, discrimination, shunning and child bullying against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in the United States. The group said it received more
than 2,800 reports of hate incidents directed at Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders nationwide January 2020, as the coronavirus spread. Not much has changed from
the stories of racism told by sisters Mimi and Lily Lee, who came to the United States in the 1960s, to Raymond Feng, a sophomore at Harvard University who grew up in
Pittsford. What has changed is the attention these moments are receiving. On the heels of the Black Lives Matter movement and the demand for social change, a
younger generation of Asian Americans is on the front lines fighting to disrupt the narratives and stereotypes surrounding them.
Don Gong
Don Gong, 95, arrived at Ellis Island from China when he was 13 years old. He is now one of about 20,000 Asian American World War II veterans to receive the
Congressional Gold Medal, which he was awarded for his two years of service as a radar mechanic.
The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest civilian award from the United States government.
"I lied about my age to get in the Air Force. I was in the 10th grade at the time," Gong said.
Discrimination against Asian Americans was embedded in U.S. policy long before Gong's arrival and continued after.
The Chinese exclusion act signed into law in 1882 made Chinese immigrants ineligible for naturalization and suspended Chinese immigration for a decade.
On Feb. 19, 1942, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt signed an executive order to incarcerate suspected enemies of the state at inland internment camps.
While the order targeted German and Italian Americans, the majority of those kept in camps were of Japanese descent. ProQuest document 1 of 1 Full Text ❘ Newspaper ' I was beaten up , and I didn't understand why ' : For AAPI community in Rochester , the threat of violence is nothing new Bell , R. , & MacIntyre - Yee , T. ( 2021 , May 30 ) . ' I was beaten up , and I didn't understand why ' : For AAPI community in Rochester , the threat of violence is nothing new . Rochester Democrat and Chronicle https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/i-was-beaten-up-didnt-understand- why / docview / 2534017293 / se - 2 ? accountid = 10345 D & C . Find a copy Check One Search for Availability http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88- 2004 & rft_val_fmt = info : ofi / fmt : kev : mtx : journal & genre = article & sid = ProQ : ProQ % 3Anortheastnews1 & atitle = % 27I + was + beaten + up % 2C + and + I + didn % 27t + understand + why % 05-30 & volume = & issue = & spage = A.1 & au = Bell % 2C + Robert % 3BMacIntyre- Yee % 2C + Tina & isbn = & jtitle = Rochester + Democrat + and + Chronicle & btitle = & rft_id = info : eric / & rft_id = info : doi / Abstract None available . Full Text Amid the backdrop of rallies and marches elevating Black lives in America , a wave of violence against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders across the country during the COVID - 19 pandemic also has entered the national conversation . They routinely encounter prejudice that makes them feel like foreigners in their own country , according to interviews with Asian American and Pacific Islanders who live in Rochester or the surrounding suburbs . Stop AAPI Hate is an advocacy center that tracks and responds to hate , violence , harassment , discrimination , shunning and child bullying against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in the United States . The group said it received more than 2,800 reports of hate incidents directed at Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders nationwide January 2020 , as the coronavirus spread . Not much has changed from the stories of racism told by sisters Mimi and Lily Lee , who came to the United States in the 1960s , to Raymond Feng , a sophomore at Harvard University who grew up in Pittsford . What has changed is the attention these moments are receiving . On the heels of the Black Lives Matter movement and the demand for social change , a younger generation of Asian Americans is on the front lines fighting to disrupt the narratives and stereotypes surrounding them . Don Gong Don Gong , 95 , arrived at Ellis Island from China when he was 13 years old . He is now one of about 20,000 Asian American World War II veterans to receive the Congressional Gold Medal , which he was awarded for his two years of service as a radar mechanic . The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest civilian award from the United States government . " I lied about my age to get in the Air Force . I was in the 10th grade at the time , " Gong said . Discrimination against Asian Americans was embedded in U.S. policy long before Gong's arrival and continued after . The Chinese exclusion act signed into law in 1882 made Chinese immigrants ineligible for naturalization and suspended Chinese immigration for a decade . On Feb. 19 , 1942 , President Franklin Delano Roosevelt signed an executive order to incarcerate suspected enemies of the state at inland internment camps . While the order targeted German and Italian Americans , the majority of those kept in camps were of Japanese descent . Nancy Gong is Don's daughter and a world-renowned glass artist. She said her father and other veterans of Asian descent defended America even though they were
treated with intolerance.
"Despite the discrimination and adverse situations that they were facing, they still chose to serve because they felt so strongly about America and being a part of it,"
Nancy Gong said.
To her father, the choice was simple, Nancy Gong said. "He said, 'They needed our help, and I wanted to help."
For Don Gong, America represented an opportunity for a better life.
"From his viewpoint, there was nothing for him in southern China," Nancy Gong said. "He was in a small village, so there was no work."
When Don Gong arrived in America, he worked in the family-owned laundry with his father, one of the earliest settlers of a generation of Chinese immigrants in Rochester.
Nancy Gong said she is sure that her father experienced racism as he established himself in America and joined the service, but he probably wouldn't discuss it. She
described him as someone who let troubles roll off his back.
"I'm pretty easy to get along with," Don Gong said.
His attitude on not speaking about racial discrimination is cultural, developed in China before his arrival to this country, she said. "That just wasn't their way," Nancy said.
Surrounded by veteran memorabilia, vintage photographs of his life as a young man, and a Congressional Gold Medal replica, Don focused on his love for America.
"I enjoyed serving this country," he said. "I'm very proud, and I have always loved this country."
Editor's note: Don Gong died May 26. We interviewed him for this story earlier in May.
Mimi W. Lee and Lily Lee
Sisters Mimi W. Lee and Lily Lee arrived in the United States as young children. Their introduction to the country coincided with a time of much social upheaval, including
the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, an act of violence that Mimi Lee said she couldn't comprehend at that age.
When Mimi Lee was 12 years old, she had her own violent experience.
"I was beaten up, and I didn't understand why," Mimi Lee said. "As I sat in the back of the police car, I was more angry at the indifference of the people watching. If
people don't know you, they're so afraid. They don't want to get involved."
The episode is similar to a present-day attack of a 65-year-old Asian woman who was kicked to the ground and stomped on by a man in New York City. Police said the
attacker made "anti-Asian statements."
It happened on a sidewalk outside a West 43rd St. apartment building. Surveillance video shows another person standing in the building's lobby watching but doing
nothing to intervene. The witness closes the front door as the assailant leaves the scene.
Mimi Lee said her own attack was a significant turning point in her life and served as a catalyst for her study of psychology to understand human behavior and thinking.
"I thought, 'We're in America, and if we don't speak up, who will speak up for us?"" she said.
In 1983, Mimi Lee moved to the area after receiving a bachelor's in psychology and certification in East Asian Studies from the University of Rochester. Later she attended
Rochester Institute of Technology and earned a bachelor's in information technology and certification in quality management.
In 1985, Mimi Lee founded the Rochester Chinese Community Association to share Chinese culture - parts of history that her sister Lily Lee said eluded them much of
their early life in America.
"I did not learn about Chinese history until I decided to take it as an elective at college, and it was taught by a Caucasian," Lilly Lee said.
The thirst to discover and share Asian history led to the formation of the Asian/Pacific Islander/American History Project of Greater Rochester.
APAA has grown into a nonprofit devoted to collecting, documenting and preserving oral and visual histories while enhancing communications among Asian and Pacific
Islander groups. Mimi Lee is APAA president.
She has launched and engaged in various projects and programs to foster a sense of pride in the community.
"Being Asian, we grew up with the saying: Do your job, do your work, don't make a fuss because the nail that stands up gets pounded down," Mimi Lee said.
Lilly Lee is the APAA secretary and communications director of the organization. She said the group asks itself how it can make life better for the next generation.
"We're going to leave this earth, and we want to leave it in a better way," Lily Lee said. "This might be the generation that says enough is enough."
Elora Rivers Kang
Elora Rivers Kang is a part of the recent generations screaming enough is enough. Kang, a Rochester resident, is a staple at local demonstrations advocating for social
change and has used her artwork to contribute to the Black Lives Matter movement by working with the local activist group Free The People Roc.
Kang was born in Jeju Island, South Korea, and she spent three months there before she was adopted.
"When you are adopted, you are always questioning your placement in the world," Kang said. "You always feel this sense of non-belonging, as you are glued to two
identities and cultures: The ones we were taken from, the other we tried so desperately to assimilate to and emulate.
"The truth is, as an Asian American adoptee, I have never fit into either. That is why I choose to speak about it and to advocate for this community. To not only reclaim my
identity but to hold space for other AAPI's healing."
Her journey into activism developed through her experiences growing up in the melting pot that is New York City. Nancy Gong is Don's daughter and a world - renowned glass artist . She said her father and other veterans of Asian descent defended America even though they were treated with intolerance . " Despite the discrimination and adverse situations that they were facing , they still chose to serve because they felt so strongly about America and being a part of it , " Nancy Gong said . To her father , the choice was simple , Nancy Gong said . " He said , ' They needed our help , and I wanted to help . " For Don Gong , America represented an opportunity for a better life . " From his viewpoint , there was nothing for him in southern China , " Nancy Gong said . " He was in a small village , so there was no work . " When Don Gong arrived in America , he worked in the family - owned laundry with his father , one of the earliest settlers of a generation of Chinese immigrants in Rochester . Nancy Gong said she is sure that her father experienced racism as he established himself in America and joined the service , but he probably wouldn't discuss it . She described him as someone who let troubles roll off his back . " I'm pretty easy to get along with , " Don Gong said . His attitude on not speaking about racial discrimination is cultural , developed in China before his arrival to this country , she said . " That just wasn't their way , " Nancy said . Surrounded by veteran memorabilia , vintage photographs of his life as a young man , and a Congressional Gold Medal replica , Don focused on his love for America . " I enjoyed serving this country , " he said . " I'm very proud , and I have always loved this country . " Editor's note : Don Gong died May 26. We interviewed him for this story earlier in May . Mimi W. Lee and Lily Lee Sisters Mimi W. Lee and Lily Lee arrived in the United States as young children . Their introduction to the country coincided with a time of much social upheaval , including the assassination of President John F. Kennedy , an act of violence that Mimi Lee said she couldn't comprehend at that age . When Mimi Lee was 12 years old , she had her own violent experience . " I was beaten up , and I didn't understand why , " Mimi Lee said . " As I sat in the back of the police car , I was more angry at the indifference of the people watching . If people don't know you , they're so afraid . They don't want to get involved . " The episode is similar to a present - day attack of a 65 - year - old Asian woman who was kicked to the ground and stomped on by a man in New York City . Police said the attacker made " anti - Asian statements . " It happened on a sidewalk outside a West 43rd St. apartment building . Surveillance video shows another person standing in the building's lobby watching but doing nothing to intervene . The witness closes the front door as the assailant leaves the scene . Mimi Lee said her own attack was a significant turning point in her life and served as a catalyst for her study of psychology to understand human behavior and thinking . " I thought , ' We're in America , and if we don't speak up , who will speak up for us ? " " she said . In 1983 , Mimi Lee moved to the area after receiving a bachelor's in psychology and certification in East Asian Studies from the University of Rochester . Later she attended Rochester Institute of Technology and earned a bachelor's in information technology and certification in quality management . In 1985 , Mimi Lee founded the Rochester Chinese Community Association to share Chinese culture - parts of history that her sister Lily Lee said eluded them much of their early life in America . " I did not learn about Chinese history until I decided to take it as an elective at college , and it was taught by a Caucasian , " Lilly Lee said . The thirst to discover and share Asian history led to the formation of the Asian / Pacific Islander / American History Project of Greater Rochester . APAA has grown into a nonprofit devoted to collecting , documenting and preserving oral and visual histories while enhancing communications among Asian and Pacific Islander groups . Mimi Lee is APAA president . She has launched and engaged in various projects and programs to foster a sense of pride in the community . " Being Asian , we grew up with the saying : Do your job , do your work , don't make a fuss because the nail that stands up gets pounded down , " Mimi Lee said . Lilly Lee is the APAA secretary and communications director of the organization . She said the group asks itself how it can make life better for the next generation . " We're going to leave this earth , and we want to leave it in a better way , " Lily Lee said . " This might be the generation that says enough is enough . " Elora Rivers Kang Elora Rivers Kang is a part of the recent generations screaming enough is enough . Kang , a Rochester resident , is a staple at local demonstrations advocating for social change and has used her artwork to contribute to the Black Lives Matter movement by working with the local activist group Free The People Roc . Kang was born in Jeju Island , South Korea , and she spent three months there before she was adopted . " When you are adopted , you are always questioning your placement in the world , " Kang said . " You always feel this sense of non - belonging , as you are glued to two identities and cultures : The ones we were taken from , the other we tried so desperately to assimilate to and emulate . " The truth is , as an Asian American adoptee , I have never fit into either . That is why I choose to speak about it and to advocate for this community . To not only reclaim my identity but to hold space for other AAPI's healing . " Her journey into activism developed through her experiences growing up in the melting pot that is New York City . Both of Kang's parents grew up in the Bronx. She remembers her father taking her and her siblings into marginalized neighborhoods to make sure they were aware of
their privilege.
Witnessing environmental racism and gentrification segregate New York City's neighborhoods, her perspective on the city evolved as she grew up, Elora said.
"New York's cool, but it often feels like a big lie," she said.
Elora's experience with racism started early. In fifth grade, a teacher asked her if she had green card. In sixth grade, she was called a "chink" on a soccer field. As the
incidents built up, she didn't immediately have the answers for everything she was feeling.
By the time she got to ninth grade, a school project to create a family tree prompted rebellion as she challenged lesson plans and refused assignments.
"I really started to get in a lot of trouble in high school because I was going through an identity crisis," Kang said.
As she came of age, the grittiness of New York City and its street art scene fueled her pursuit for a life as an artist. At 18, she landed a job with a major fashion
publication. Immersed in New York's fashion world, she began to notice how much of the industry's inner workings were influenced by Asian culture.
"70% of the people in the room were Asian," Kang said. "From the hairstylist to the makeup artist and casting directors - it was predominantly Asian."
The experience instilled a sense of pride in her, but the reality the industry did not have enough Asian people in power eventually led her to exit the industry, Kang said.
"It was seven years of feeling sexualized, underrepresented, misrepresented and whitewashed," Kang said. "White institutions will always steal points of Asian culture."
Even through the exploitation, the experience brought Kang closer to her Korean culture.
"We're dope because we are culturally so different from the people in this country," Kang said. "I stopped dying my hair and doing my makeup in a certain way to seem
like I was mixed. I was really proud to be 100% a Korean woman. No one can take that away from me."
Kang said she is no longer confused about her identity. As violence against Asian Americans continues to rise, Kang said she believes the ultimate culprit is white
supremacy — ideas that have been inserted in every American community.
-
Elora's art and activism are meant to combat those evils head-on after experiencing stereotypes, racial slurs and the fetishization of Asian women.
"I am an Asian woman," Kang said. "I want to be remembered as a proud Korean artist who is strong, eccentric, assertive and who has nerve, grit and is full of curiosity.
Not as a submissive, docile Asian girl. That is not who I am. That is not who we individually are."
Pamela Kim Adams
Pamela Kim Adams of Brighton is a Korean adoptee, activist and care coordinator with Refugees Helping Refugees, a nonprofit seeking to foster Rochester's refugee
community's growth, self-determination and self-reliance.
Raised by white parents, Kim Adams said she grew up in a white world, disconnected from Korean culture.
"There have been periods in my life where I didn't strongly identify as Asian because I was adopted," Kim Adams said. "I was separated from my language and my
culture. I don't speak Korean. I didn't grow up eating Korean food and still, walking down the street, I'm the foreigner."
Even though the family that adopted Pamela grew up in Brighton themselves, she said that she's never quite felt like she was part of that community.
"I think there is still this feeling in Brighton that if you're different, you're somehow still a little bit of an outsider," Kim Adams said. "Just because there is diversity that
doesn't mean there is equity and true inclusion."
As a youth, Pamela said she experienced both overt racism and microaggressions, which are subtle.
She was teased, picked last for group projects, stereotyped as bright and then made fun of for her intelligence, Adams said. Students made up languages while speaking
to her and made jokes about the shape of her eyes, she recalled.
The bullying got so intense by fifth grade that Adams left the school district.
"As a kid, I didn't really know what to make of these comments," Adams said. "I would just freeze, and it was uncomfortable. I didn't know what to say."
On March 16, 2021, a string of mass shootings transpired at three spas in the Atlanta area. Of the eight people killed, six were women of Asian descent.
Adams attended a candlelight vigil at the University of Rochester in the days that followed. As young students spoke on their own experiences and the history of racism
against Asian Americans, the energy gave Adams hope that future generations are committed to fighting back and combating a stereotype that Asian Americans will lay
down and accept abuse.
"It made me reflect on my own experiences in my life and the ways in which I haven't fought back and I've just survived," Adams said. "In recent years, I've become more
of a fighter."
At a local Stop Asian Hate rally outside the Maplewood YMCA, Adams spoke about the idea that proximity to mainstream culture doesn't protect Asians from bigotry.
"Being from a white family and growing up in Brighton doesn't matter when I'm on my own coming face-to-face with somebody who has certain views about Asian
people," Adams said. "They're not going to care if I just shown up yesterday or if I was born in Rochester. There are people who are second or third generation who
experience the same type of racism just because of what we look like."
Raymond Feng
Raymond Feng of Pittsford loves to play the piano. His affair with music began when he was just 4 years old, but when the Atlanta mass shooting became a symbol of
Asian hate in America, he was compelled to use his voice.
When Feng attended the local Stop Asian Hate rally in early April, he spoke on his experiences growing up as an Asian male dealing with racism. Both of Kang's parents grew up in the Bronx . She remembers her father taking her and her siblings into marginalized neighborhoods to make sure they were aware of their privilege . Witnessing environmental racism and gentrification segregate New York City's neighborhoods , her perspective on the city evolved as she grew up , Elora said . " New York's cool , but it often feels like a big lie , " she said . Elora's experience with racism started early . In fifth grade , a teacher asked her if she had green card . In sixth grade , she was called a " chink " on a soccer field . As the incidents built up , she didn't immediately have the answers for everything she was feeling . By the time she got to ninth grade , a school project to create a family tree prompted rebellion as she challenged lesson plans and refused assignments . " I really started to get in a lot of trouble in high school because I was going through an identity crisis , " Kang said . As she came of age , the grittiness of New York City and its street art scene fueled her pursuit for a life as an artist . At 18 , she landed a job with a major fashion publication . Immersed in New York's fashion world , she began to notice how much of the industry's inner workings were influenced by Asian culture . " 70 % of the people in the room were Asian , " Kang said . " From the hairstylist to the makeup artist and casting directors - it was predominantly Asian . " The experience instilled a sense of pride in her , but the reality the industry did not have enough Asian people in power eventually led her to exit the industry , Kang said . " It was seven years of feeling sexualized , underrepresented , misrepresented and whitewashed , " Kang said . " White institutions will always steal points of Asian culture . " Even through the exploitation , the experience brought Kang closer to her Korean culture . " We're dope because we are culturally so different from the people in this country , " Kang said . " I stopped dying my hair and doing my makeup in a certain way to seem like I was mixed . I was really proud to be 100 % a Korean woman . No one can take that away from me . " Kang said she is no longer confused about her identity . As violence against Asian Americans continues to rise , Kang said she believes the ultimate culprit is white supremacy — ideas that have been inserted in every American community . - Elora's art and activism are meant to combat those evils head - on after experiencing stereotypes , racial slurs and the fetishization of Asian women . " I am an Asian woman , " Kang said . " I want to be remembered as a proud Korean artist who is strong , eccentric , assertive and who has nerve , grit and is full of curiosity . Not as a submissive , docile Asian girl . That is not who I am . That is not who we individually are . " Pamela Kim Adams Pamela Kim Adams of Brighton is a Korean adoptee , activist and care coordinator with Refugees Helping Refugees , a nonprofit seeking to foster Rochester's refugee community's growth , self - determination and self - reliance . Raised by white parents , Kim Adams said she grew up in a white world , disconnected from Korean culture . " There have been periods in my life where I didn't strongly identify as Asian because I was adopted , " Kim Adams said . " I was separated from my language and my culture . I don't speak Korean . I didn't grow up eating Korean food and still , walking down the street , I'm the foreigner . " Even though the family that adopted Pamela grew up in Brighton themselves , she said that she's never quite felt like she was part of that community . " I think there is still this feeling in Brighton that if you're different , you're somehow still a little bit of an outsider , " Kim Adams said . " Just because there is diversity that doesn't mean there is equity and true inclusion . " As a youth , Pamela said she experienced both overt racism and microaggressions , which are subtle . She was teased , picked last for group projects , stereotyped as bright and then made fun of for her intelligence , Adams said . Students made up languages while speaking to her and made jokes about the shape of her eyes , she recalled . The bullying got so intense by fifth grade that Adams left the school district . " As a kid , I didn't really know what to make of these comments , " Adams said . " I would just freeze , and it was uncomfortable . I didn't know what to say . " On March 16 , 2021 , a string of mass shootings transpired at three spas in the Atlanta area . Of the eight people killed , six were women of Asian descent . Adams attended a candlelight vigil at the University of Rochester in the days that followed . As young students spoke on their own experiences and the history of racism against Asian Americans , the energy gave Adams hope that future generations are committed to fighting back and combating a stereotype that Asian Americans will lay down and accept abuse . " It made me reflect on my own experiences in my life and the ways in which I haven't fought back and I've just survived , " Adams said . " In recent years , I've become more of a fighter . " At a local Stop Asian Hate rally outside the Maplewood YMCA , Adams spoke about the idea that proximity to mainstream culture doesn't protect Asians from bigotry . " Being from a white family and growing up in Brighton doesn't matter when I'm on my own coming face - to - face with somebody who has certain views about Asian people , " Adams said . " They're not going to care if I just shown up yesterday or if I was born in Rochester . There are people who are second or third generation who experience the same type of racism just because of what we look like . " Raymond Feng Raymond Feng of Pittsford loves to play the piano . His affair with music began when he was just 4 years old , but when the Atlanta mass shooting became a symbol of Asian hate in America , he was compelled to use his voice . When Feng attended the local Stop Asian Hate rally in early April , he spoke on his experiences growing up as an Asian male dealing with racism . "I wanted to be able to do something in terms of myself," Feng said. "Being in town, attending a rally in the place where I grew up and had a lot of experiences related to
my identity being Asian, I think that was something that was really meaningful for me."
After the Atlanta shooting, Feng said, he experienced a sense of helplessness, feeling that the problem was beyond him.
Going to the rally and sharing his story helped him process his grief.
"It started from a pretty young age," Feng said. "I was made fun of for my eyes, the language I spoke, the way my hair looked, the food I ate - basically anything about
me or my identity."
Raymond shared a story about a time in kindergarten when he pulled his food out for lunch, and a fellow student described the Asian cuisine as "yucky."
"That was really confusing to me at the time," Feng said. "You know this experience is not unique to me at all. I mean, there are so many stories of Asian parents who
made their children really nice lunches to take to school, and one day the parents are told the kids don't want it anymore. That kind of breaks my heart because food is
such a huge part of Asian culture."
As a kid, Feng internalized the racism as his pride in his culture was shaken at times, he said. Feng said the internal battles of being different are universal for all young
people of color.
"It's that constant thought of, 'What if I was born White? Would things be easier for me?"" Feng said.
For him, continuous family connections, cultural traditions and his grandmother's Chinese noodle soup provide a sense of comfort and re-center pride in his culture.
"People connect food to home a lot of the times," Feng said. "So when they move away from home, food is something that brings them back to their roots."
Feng's difficulties growing up as an outsider echo the experience of many of the other interviewed, but his gender impacted how he was and is perceived. While Asian
women are often sexualized and fetishized in America, Asian males tend to experience the exact opposite.
"We're seen as unworthy or undesirable," Feng said. "Media portrayals do exactly that with all the tropes and stereotypes you see over and over again. It definitely
impacts your sense of worth."
Feng said the stereotypes irritate him, but he also worries about perpetuating them further through his hobbies.
"It's always in the back of my mind," Feng said. "I love doing math, I love playing piano, but by doing that, am I contributing to the stereotype?"
Feng is a musician at heart but is studying math and is engaged in technology-related endeavors. In the future, he would love to do something that impacts people in a
meaningful way, Feng said.
He never envisioned himself on the steps of a rally against Asian hate, speaking to a crowd of those who share his plight, but now that he's had the experience, Feng
said, he hopes to continue to speak up for his culture in the future.
"With the rally being in Rochester and me growing up in Rochester, I was grateful to speak up for people who have had shared experiences. I hope to do as much as I
can in that regard."
How to be an ally
If you're wondering how to be an ally to the Asian community during this time, Elora Rivers Kang believes the solution begins with inclusion. "I believe as a Korean
woman, the way to help the Asian community is to include us in everything," Kang said. "I believe it is crucial to listen to every voice, but to accelerate the ones you do
not have "access" to because of your preconceptions and/or judgment. There is a difference between trying and tokenizing. We need to be listened to, not reduced to a
stereotype."
Copyright 2021 ROCHESTER DEMOCRAT AND CHRONICLE - All Rights Reserved.
Subject
Location
Title
Author
Publication title
First page
Publication year
Publication date
Section
Publisher
Place of publication
Country of publication
Publication subject
Source type
Language of publication
Document type
ProQuest document ID
Document URL
Copyright
Last updated
Database
Social change;
Violence;
Pacific Islander people;
Asian Americans;
Racial discrimination;
Racism;
Awards & honors;
Coronaviruses;
COVID-19;
Black Lives Matter movement
China; New York City New York; United States--US
'I was beaten up, and I didn't understand why': For AAPI community in Rochester, the threat of violence is nothing new
Bell, Robert; MacIntyre-Yee, Tina
Rochester Democrat and Chronicle; Rochester, N.Y.
A.1
2021
May 30, 2021
News
Gannett Media Corp
Rochester, N.Y.
United States, Rochester, N.Y.
General Interest Periodicals--United States
Newspaper
English
News
2534017293
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/i-was-beaten-up-didnt-understand-
why/docview/2534017293/se-2?accountid=10345
Copyright 2021 - ROCHESTER DEMOCRAT AND CHRONICLE - All Rights Reserved.
2021-10-04
Global Newsstream
Bibliography
Citation style: APA 7th American Psychological Association, 7th Edition
Bell, R., & MacIntyre-Yee, T. (2021, May 30). 'I was beaten up, and I didn't understand why': For AAPI community in Rochester, the threat of violence is nothing new.
Rochester Democrat and Chronicle https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/i-was-beaten-up-didnt-understand-
why/docview/2534017293/se-2?accountid=10345 " I wanted to be able to do something in terms of myself , " Feng said . " Being in town , attending a rally in the place where I grew up and had a lot of experiences related to my identity being Asian , I think that was something that was really meaningful for me . " After the Atlanta shooting , Feng said , he experienced a sense of helplessness , feeling that the problem was beyond him . Going to the rally and sharing his story helped him process his grief . " It started from a pretty young age , " Feng said . " I was made fun of for my eyes , the language I spoke , the way my hair looked , the food I ate - basically anything about me or my identity . " Raymond shared a story about a time in kindergarten when he pulled his food out for lunch , and a fellow student described the Asian cuisine as " yucky . " " That was really confusing to me at the time , " Feng said . " You know this experience is not unique to me at all . I mean , there are so many stories of Asian parents who made their children really nice lunches to take to school , and one day the parents are told the kids don't want it anymore . That kind of breaks my heart because food is such a huge part of Asian culture . " As a kid , Feng internalized the racism as his pride in his culture was shaken at times , he said . Feng said the internal battles of being different are universal for all young people of color . " It's that constant thought of , ' What if I was born White ? Would things be easier for me ? " " Feng said . For him , continuous family connections , cultural traditions and his grandmother's Chinese noodle soup provide a sense of comfort and re - center pride in his culture . " People connect food to home a lot of the times , " Feng said . " So when they move away from home , food is something that brings them back to their roots . " Feng's difficulties growing up as an outsider echo the experience of many of the other interviewed , but his gender impacted how he was and is perceived . While Asian women are often sexualized and fetishized in America , Asian males tend to experience the exact opposite . " We're seen as unworthy or undesirable , " Feng said . " Media portrayals do exactly that with all the tropes and stereotypes you see over and over again . It definitely impacts your sense of worth . " Feng said the stereotypes irritate him , but he also worries about perpetuating them further through his hobbies . " It's always in the back of my mind , " Feng said . " I love doing math , I love playing piano , but by doing that , am I contributing to the stereotype ? " Feng is a musician at heart but is studying math and is engaged in technology - related endeavors . In the future , he would love to do something that impacts people in a meaningful way , Feng said . He never envisioned himself on the steps of a rally against Asian hate , speaking to a crowd of those who share his plight , but now that he's had the experience , Feng said , he hopes to continue to speak up for his culture in the future . " With the rally being in Rochester and me growing up in Rochester , I was grateful to speak up for people who have had shared experiences . I hope to do as much as I can in that regard . " How to be an ally If you're wondering how to be an ally to the Asian community during this time , Elora Rivers Kang believes the solution begins with inclusion . " I believe as a Korean woman , the way to help the Asian community is to include us in everything , " Kang said . " I believe it is crucial to listen to every voice , but to accelerate the ones you do not have " access " to because of your preconceptions and / or judgment . There is a difference between trying and tokenizing . We need to be listened to , not reduced to a stereotype . " Copyright 2021 ROCHESTER DEMOCRAT AND CHRONICLE - All Rights Reserved . Subject Location Title Author Publication title First page Publication year Publication date Section Publisher Place of publication Country of publication Publication subject Source type Language of publication Document type ProQuest document ID Document URL Copyright Last updated Database Social change ; Violence ; Pacific Islander people ; Asian Americans ; Racial discrimination ; Racism ; Awards & honors ; Coronaviruses ; COVID - 19 ; Black Lives Matter movement China ; New York City New York ; United States -- US ' I was beaten up , and I didn't understand why ' : For AAPI community in Rochester , the threat of violence is nothing new Bell , Robert ; MacIntyre - Yee , Tina Rochester Democrat and Chronicle ; Rochester , N.Y. A.1 2021 May 30 , 2021 News Gannett Media Corp Rochester , N.Y. United States , Rochester , N.Y. General Interest Periodicals -- United States Newspaper English News 2534017293 https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/i-was-beaten-up-didnt-understand- why / docview / 2534017293 / se - 2 ? accountid = 10345 Copyright 2021 - ROCHESTER DEMOCRAT AND CHRONICLE - All Rights Reserved . 2021-10-04 Global Newsstream Bibliography Citation style : APA 7th American Psychological Association , 7th Edition Bell , R. , & MacIntyre - Yee , T. ( 2021 , May 30 ) . ' I was beaten up , and I didn't understand why ' : For AAPI community in Rochester , the threat of violence is nothing new . Rochester Democrat and Chronicle https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/i-was-beaten-up-didnt-understand- why / docview / 2534017293 / se - 2 ? accountid = 10345 Database copyright © 2022 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved. Terms and Conditions Database copyright © 2022 ProQuest LLC . All rights reserved . Terms and Conditions 