ProQuest
document 1 of 1
Full Text
Newspaper
Vermonters speak out: Racist incidents leave some residents shaken
Murray, E. (2021, May 02). Vermonters speak out: Racist incidents leave some residents shaken. The Burlington Free Press https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?
url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vermonters-speak-out/docview/2520357412/se-2?accountid=10345
Find a copy
B.
Check OneSearch for Availability
http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88-
2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev: mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ: ProQ%3Anortheastnews1&atitle=Vermonters+speak+out%3A+Racist+incidents +leave+some+reside
05-02&volume=&issue=&spage=A.7&au=Murray%2C+Elizabeth&isbn=&jtitle=The+Burlington+Free+Press&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/
Abstract
None available.
Full Text
"We are an incredibly diverse group of people. To someone who is not Asian American, we are often seen as the same. ... We look the same, and in that sense we are
treated the same."
Bor Yang
Vermont Human Rights Commission Executive Director, who is originally from Laos and is ethnically Hmong
Misoo Bang only lived in Johnson for two months before she couldn't take the daily racism and fear she faced.
Bang, 41, a local artist, activist and mother, said that she had moved to the town just outside Chittenden County to create art at the Vermont Studio Center, which
attracts artists from all over the world. As one of the only non-white people living in the town, separate from the studio center community, she felt isolated.
"I was imagining that studio center community in Johnson," Bang said, recalling her experience from about four years ago. "When I actually moved there to live in
Johnson, it was very different."
Bang, who was born in New York City and spent her childhood in Seoul, South Korea, said she felt unsafe walking around Johnson at night. Once, a car full of young,
white people shouted at her while she was walking by herself. "Go back to your country," she recalled them yelling.
The incident shook her.
"I had heard about people hearing that, but I'd never actually had that experience of people shouting at me," said Bang, who now lives in South Burlington.
Bang's story is just one of the many racism-fueled experiences that Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in Vermont have endured. These incidents range from implicit, or
unconscious, bias - like being asked, "Where are you from?" - to explicit hate and sometimes violence.
The Green Mountain State is not immune to hate and racism, Bang and other Asian American Vermonters say.
Bias incidents and hate crimes against Asian Americans have risen across the U.S. since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. Asian American Vermonters, including
seven who spoke to the Burlington Free Press, have not reported a similar rise in violent incidents, but they say they are often more guarded and anxious when they go ProQuest document 1 of 1 Full Text Newspaper Vermonters speak out : Racist incidents leave some residents shaken Murray , E. ( 2021 , May 02 ) . Vermonters speak out : Racist incidents leave some residents shaken . The Burlington Free Press https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login ? url = https : //www.proquest.com/newspapers/vermonters-speak-out/docview/2520357412/se-2 ? accountid = 10345 Find a copy B. Check OneSearch for Availability http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88- 2004 & rft_val_fmt = info : ofi / fmt : kev : mtx : journal & genre = article & sid = ProQ : ProQ % 3Anortheastnews1 & atitle = Vermonters + speak + out % 3A + Racist + incidents + leave + some + reside 05-02 & volume = & issue = & spage = A.7 & au = Murray % 2C + Elizabeth & isbn = & jtitle = The + Burlington + Free + Press & btitle = & rft_id = info : eric / & rft_id = info : doi / Abstract None available . Full Text " We are an incredibly diverse group of people . To someone who is not Asian American , we are often seen as the same . ... We look the same , and in that sense we are treated the same . " Bor Yang Vermont Human Rights Commission Executive Director , who is originally from Laos and is ethnically Hmong Misoo Bang only lived in Johnson for two months before she couldn't take the daily racism and fear she faced . Bang , 41 , a local artist , activist and mother , said that she had moved to the town just outside Chittenden County to create art at the Vermont Studio Center , which attracts artists from all over the world . As one of the only non - white people living in the town , separate from the studio center community , she felt isolated . " I was imagining that studio center community in Johnson , " Bang said , recalling her experience from about four years ago . " When I actually moved there to live in Johnson , it was very different . " Bang , who was born in New York City and spent her childhood in Seoul , South Korea , said she felt unsafe walking around Johnson at night . Once , a car full of young , white people shouted at her while she was walking by herself . " Go back to your country , " she recalled them yelling . The incident shook her . " I had heard about people hearing that , but I'd never actually had that experience of people shouting at me , " said Bang , who now lives in South Burlington . Bang's story is just one of the many racism - fueled experiences that Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in Vermont have endured . These incidents range from implicit , or unconscious , bias - like being asked , " Where are you from ? " - to explicit hate and sometimes violence . The Green Mountain State is not immune to hate and racism , Bang and other Asian American Vermonters say . Bias incidents and hate crimes against Asian Americans have risen across the U.S. since the beginning of the COVID - 19 pandemic . Asian American Vermonters , including seven who spoke to the Burlington Free Press , have not reported a similar rise in violent incidents , but they say they are often more guarded and anxious when they go out in public these days. At least one person said she noticed white community members were more explicit now about their racist beliefs.
Bang said she started carrying pepper spray. Her Asian American friends wear hoodies and sunglasses with their face masks to conceal their race. This was even before a
shooting in March in Atlanta left eight people dead, including six women of Asian heritage.
Thousands of anti-Asian hate incidents reported in U.S.
during pandemic
Asian Americans across the country have been the targets of violence, verbal attacks and vandalism at higher levels since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic last
year. Stop AAPI Hate, a coalition formed by the Asian Pacific Policy Planning Council in Los Angeles, said its reporting center received almost 3,300 hate incident accounts
in 2020 from across the U.S. Another 500 incidents were reported during the first two months of 2021, Stop AAPI Hate's national report stated.
"The number of hate incidents reported to our center represent only a fraction of the number of hate incidents that actually occur, but it does show how vulnerable Asian
Americans are to discrimination, and the types of discrimination they face," Stop AAPI Hate wrote in its report. AAPI stands for Asian American and Pacific Islander.
Some have attributed the rising vitriol, in part, to rhetoric from former President Donald Trump, who blamed China for the pandemic and referred to COVID-19 as the
"Chinese virus" or "Kung Flu."
Trump tapped into fear and hate that already existed within other Americans before the pandemic, said Vermont Human Rights Commission Executive Director Bor Yang.
Yang is originally from Laos and is ethnically Hmong.
"It's sort of this fear of others leads us to hate others," Yang said. She said this is not just the experience of Asian Americans, but people of all classes, race, gender,
sexual orientation and others protected under the law.
Stop AAPI Hate has been tracking the rise in hate against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders since the beginning of the pandemic in March 2020. But, many white
leaders didn't begin denouncing that rising violence until after the Atlanta shooting more than one year later.
What's happening in Vermont?
The U.S. Census Bureau estimates that in 2019, Vermont's Asian population was about 6%, and the population of native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islanders was about
0.2%.
Statistics through the Vermont Attorney General's Office's bias reporting tool, which doesn't characterize bias incidents by race, show no incidents within the state
against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders since 2019, according to Charity Clark, chief of staff to Attorney General T.J. Donovan. As of mid-March, Vermont Attorney
General's Office has received about 116 bias incident reports since the reporting system began being used in January 2019. About 80 of those led to cases being opened,
Clark said.
Asian American community members who spoke to the Free Press said the lack of statistics does not reflect their true experience in Vermont since bias has always.
existed. The tone of some of the bias incidents may have changed since the beginning of pandemic, however.
Yang said she has heard more stories about Asian American Vermonters being called "Coronavirus" or being treated as if they are contagious
in the same room as them or near them in general.
'I've never felt so much
outright hostility'
―
others do not want to be
South Burlington resident Bo-Yee Poon said these days, she mostly worries about her children who speak English as a second language. Poon was born in Boston and
spent much of her childhood in Shelburne, but her children were born in China during the more than a decade she lived there.
Poon returned to the U.S. in February 2020 with her children in tow when COVID-19 was ravaging China. She said the racism she and her children have faced since
returning has caused her to more than once consider returning to China. Poon, whose father was Chinese and mother is Irish-American, said that her children look more
Asian than she does, so she thinks that puts more of a target on their backs.
"I've never felt so much outright hostility ever," Poon said. "People are more emboldened to act on their racism and somehow think it's okay."
Two of Poon's three children were four years old when they arrived in the U.S. Poon has been teaching her children English and trying to help them understand cultural
concepts in their new country and how to interact with others during the pandemic.
Poon said her kids have already been targeted by several adults in Vermont. At least one neighbor threatened to kick her son for looking in the neighbor's grocery bag. A
manager in a local store kicked a box full of items at her daughter, but then denied it when Poon called him out. And, Poon said, she has noticed white neighbors and
community members glaring at her and her children when they leave the house.
Poon said her kids will be starting school soon, and she worries about entrusting the care of her children to other adults.
Microaggressions happen
daily in Vermont
No matter how long Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have lived in Vermont, the question from white peers inevitably comes: "Where are you from?" It's a subtle
thing, but it's a question that they say makes clear that they are considered "other" - not American.
This question and others like it are the majority of the bias that Asian American Vermonters told the Free Press they experience. Local entrepreneur Mieko Ozeki calls it
the "thousand cuts in language."
"This really goes back to the fundamental question my father always asks: 'Aren't we American?"" Ozeki said. "When are we going to be considered American?"
Ozeki and Brian Hsiang, who does anti-racism work, both say that they've experienced seeing a white Vermonter be surprised by how well they speak English. Ozeki and
Hsiang were born in the U.S. and live in Burlington and Essex, respectively.
"I think I have many more of the questions from community members, which they would say are harmless curiosities, but I'm not a curiosity," Hsiang said. "No human is a
curiosity or a fetish." out in public these days . At least one person said she noticed white community members were more explicit now about their racist beliefs . Bang said she started carrying pepper spray . Her Asian American friends wear hoodies and sunglasses with their face masks to conceal their race . This was even before a shooting in March in Atlanta left eight people dead , including six women of Asian heritage . Thousands of anti - Asian hate incidents reported in U.S. during pandemic Asian Americans across the country have been the targets of violence , verbal attacks and vandalism at higher levels since the beginning of the COVID - 19 pandemic last year . Stop AAPI Hate , a coalition formed by the Asian Pacific Policy Planning Council in Los Angeles , said its reporting center received almost 3,300 hate incident accounts in 2020 from across the U.S. Another 500 incidents were reported during the first two months of 2021 , Stop AAPI Hate's national report stated . " The number of hate incidents reported to our center represent only a fraction of the number of hate incidents that actually occur , but it does show how vulnerable Asian Americans are to discrimination , and the types of discrimination they face , " Stop AAPI Hate wrote in its report . AAPI stands for Asian American and Pacific Islander . Some have attributed the rising vitriol , in part , to rhetoric from former President Donald Trump , who blamed China for the pandemic and referred to COVID - 19 as the " Chinese virus " or " Kung Flu . " Trump tapped into fear and hate that already existed within other Americans before the pandemic , said Vermont Human Rights Commission Executive Director Bor Yang . Yang is originally from Laos and is ethnically Hmong . " It's sort of this fear of others leads us to hate others , " Yang said . She said this is not just the experience of Asian Americans , but people of all classes , race , gender , sexual orientation and others protected under the law . Stop AAPI Hate has been tracking the rise in hate against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders since the beginning of the pandemic in March 2020. But , many white leaders didn't begin denouncing that rising violence until after the Atlanta shooting more than one year later . What's happening in Vermont ? The U.S. Census Bureau estimates that in 2019 , Vermont's Asian population was about 6 % , and the population of native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islanders was about 0.2 % . Statistics through the Vermont Attorney General's Office's bias reporting tool , which doesn't characterize bias incidents by race , show no incidents within the state against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders since 2019 , according to Charity Clark , chief of staff to Attorney General T.J. Donovan . As of mid - March , Vermont Attorney General's Office has received about 116 bias incident reports since the reporting system began being used in January 2019. About 80 of those led to cases being opened , Clark said . Asian American community members who spoke to the Free Press said the lack of statistics does not reflect their true experience in Vermont since bias has always . existed . The tone of some of the bias incidents may have changed since the beginning of pandemic , however . Yang said she has heard more stories about Asian American Vermonters being called " Coronavirus " or being treated as if they are contagious in the same room as them or near them in general . ' I've never felt so much outright hostility ' ― others do not want to be South Burlington resident Bo - Yee Poon said these days , she mostly worries about her children who speak English as a second language . Poon was born in Boston and spent much of her childhood in Shelburne , but her children were born in China during the more than a decade she lived there . Poon returned to the U.S. in February 2020 with her children in tow when COVID - 19 was ravaging China . She said the racism she and her children have faced since returning has caused her to more than once consider returning to China . Poon , whose father was Chinese and mother is Irish - American , said that her children look more Asian than she does , so she thinks that puts more of a target on their backs . " I've never felt so much outright hostility ever , " Poon said . " People are more emboldened to act on their racism and somehow think it's okay . " Two of Poon's three children were four years old when they arrived in the U.S. Poon has been teaching her children English and trying to help them understand cultural concepts in their new country and how to interact with others during the pandemic . Poon said her kids have already been targeted by several adults in Vermont . At least one neighbor threatened to kick her son for looking in the neighbor's grocery bag . A manager in a local store kicked a box full of items at her daughter , but then denied it when Poon called him out . And , Poon said , she has noticed white neighbors and community members glaring at her and her children when they leave the house . Poon said her kids will be starting school soon , and she worries about entrusting the care of her children to other adults . Microaggressions happen daily in Vermont No matter how long Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have lived in Vermont , the question from white peers inevitably comes : " Where are you from ? " It's a subtle thing , but it's a question that they say makes clear that they are considered " other " - not American . This question and others like it are the majority of the bias that Asian American Vermonters told the Free Press they experience . Local entrepreneur Mieko Ozeki calls it the " thousand cuts in language . " " This really goes back to the fundamental question my father always asks : ' Aren't we American ? " " Ozeki said . " When are we going to be considered American ? " Ozeki and Brian Hsiang , who does anti - racism work , both say that they've experienced seeing a white Vermonter be surprised by how well they speak English . Ozeki and Hsiang were born in the U.S. and live in Burlington and Essex , respectively . " I think I have many more of the questions from community members , which they would say are harmless curiosities , but I'm not a curiosity , " Hsiang said . " No human is a curiosity or a fetish . " Vermont's overwhelmingly white population often means that few people of color fill public committees seats or offices. Ozeki said that she's often been the only non-
white person on committees. This causes her to wonder whether she's being brought on because of her knowledge and experience or because of her race.
She feels immense weight in these situations since she understands her own experience does not represent the experiences of the Vermonters from a number of other
Asian countries and ethnic backgrounds.
"We are an incredibly diverse group of people," said Yang, the Human Rights Commission director. However, she added, "To someone who is not Asian American, we are
often seen as the same. ... We look the same, and in that sense we are treated the same."
Decision to report racist behavior is often 'complicated'
According to Yang, discrimination and bias in general are under-reported
-
this isn't something that is unique to Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.
South Burlington mother Poon has reported bias and discrimination multiple times since she arrived back in Vermont. She said she feels like she's taken seriously at the
time, but has yet to see any action.
Yang often sees two major barriers to people reporting discrimination: distrust in the entities taking the report and unclear or insurmountable legal requirements.
"Right now, there is a gap between what is actionable in court and what offends our moral compass and our values as Vermonters," Yang said.
Burlington police Sgt. My Nguyen, who immigrated to Vermont from Vietnam when he was 10, said sometimes cultural beliefs or past experiences for New Americans
complicate the decision to report.
For example, in Vietnam when Nguyen was young, police were an entity to be feared, not trusted. He said this fear of police is similar for other New Americans, not just
those from Vietnam. Nguyen said he uses his ability to speak Vietnamese and his understanding of and connections within the Asian American community to help build
trust with the police.
"I wanted to be a police officer because I wanted to make a difference," Nguyen said. "To be able to speak a different language, to be the voice for a community that
sometimes doesn't have a voice for themselves."
According to Nguyen, many Asian Americans hesitate to report certain concerns because they don't want to draw attention to themselves or create friction both within
their own families and with the greater community.
"Saving face is very important in the Asian culture as well," Nguyen said. "Do you want to have other people from your culture know that, 'This is us, we have all these
issues, police had to get involved.""
Hsiang said had been urged to report one of his experiences years ago — being accused of having a bomb at the movie theater in Essex. But he never did.
"It does make me think about what are the incidents that people don't want to relive the trauma or don't want to relive the embarrassment of going through the
reporting process if they were not physically assaulted," Hsiang said.
Education, intervention vital to protect Asian Vermonters
Those who spoke to the Burlington Free Press said they hope the light being shined on the experiences of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders is a catalyst for change.
Most of them said greater education and understanding about other cultures is necessary. This isn't just to understand Asian American Vermonters, but all Vermonters of
color as well. Several, like Bang, said there need to be more Vermonters of color in positions of influence - not just as tokens, but as a sincere way to provide insight and
equity.
Yang hoped the Vermont Legislature would pick up H.329, which works to strengthen protections under the law against discrimination and harassment. She said this
would help overcome some of the legal barriers that currently exist in reporting these incidents.
Bang said that since the Atlanta shooting, white residents have made a greater effort to reach out to her. She hopes it isn't just temporary action to make themselves
feel like they aren't racist.
"Don't use us to make yourself look better, but really understand the ability and talent that we have," Bang said. "Really understand the beauty of what we can bring
from different cultures and make this community richer."
Contact Elizabeth Murray at 802-651-4835 or emurray@freepressmedia.com. Follow her on Twitter at @Liz MurrayBFP.
"We are an incredibly diverse group of people. To someone who is not Asian American, we are often seen as the same. We look the same, and in that sense we are
treated the same."
Bor Yang
Vermont Human Rights Commission Executive Director, who is originally from Laos and is ethnically Hmong
Find more inside
Resources for people who believe they have been the victim of bias, discrimination or hate. 7A
Get help
People who believe they have been the victim of bias, discrimination or hate can contact the following resources for help:
For crimes motivated by hate, contact the local police department.
Report hate crimes or bias incidents to the Vermont Attorney General's Office's Civil Rights Division: (888)-745-9195 or AGO.Civil Rights@vermont.gov.
Report bias or discrimination to the Vermont Human Rights Commission: fill out a questionnaire at hrc.vermont.gov/how-to-file, or call 802-828-2480.
Copyright 2021 - BURLINGTON FREE PRESS - All Rights Reserved. Vermont's overwhelmingly white population often means that few people of color fill public committees seats or offices . Ozeki said that she's often been the only non- white person on committees . This causes her to wonder whether she's being brought on because of her knowledge and experience or because of her race . She feels immense weight in these situations since she understands her own experience does not represent the experiences of the Vermonters from a number of other Asian countries and ethnic backgrounds . " We are an incredibly diverse group of people , " said Yang , the Human Rights Commission director . However , she added , " To someone who is not Asian American , we are often seen as the same . ... We look the same , and in that sense we are treated the same . " Decision to report racist behavior is often ' complicated ' According to Yang , discrimination and bias in general are under - reported - this isn't something that is unique to Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders . South Burlington mother Poon has reported bias and discrimination multiple times since she arrived back in Vermont . She said she feels like she's taken seriously at the time , but has yet to see any action . Yang often sees two major barriers to people reporting discrimination : distrust in the entities taking the report and unclear or insurmountable legal requirements . " Right now , there is a gap between what is actionable in court and what offends our moral compass and our values as Vermonters , " Yang said . Burlington police Sgt . My Nguyen , who immigrated to Vermont from Vietnam when he was 10 , said sometimes cultural beliefs or past experiences for New Americans complicate the decision to report . For example , in Vietnam when Nguyen was young , police were an entity to be feared , not trusted . He said this fear of police is similar for other New Americans , not just those from Vietnam . Nguyen said he uses his ability to speak Vietnamese and his understanding of and connections within the Asian American community to help build trust with the police . " I wanted to be a police officer because I wanted to make a difference , " Nguyen said . " To be able to speak a different language , to be the voice for a community that sometimes doesn't have a voice for themselves . " According to Nguyen , many Asian Americans hesitate to report certain concerns because they don't want to draw attention to themselves or create friction both within their own families and with the greater community . " Saving face is very important in the Asian culture as well , " Nguyen said . " Do you want to have other people from your culture know that , ' This is us , we have all these issues , police had to get involved . " " Hsiang said had been urged to report one of his experiences years ago — being accused of having a bomb at the movie theater in Essex . But he never did . " It does make me think about what are the incidents that people don't want to relive the trauma or don't want to relive the embarrassment of going through the reporting process if they were not physically assaulted , " Hsiang said . Education , intervention vital to protect Asian Vermonters Those who spoke to the Burlington Free Press said they hope the light being shined on the experiences of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders is a catalyst for change . Most of them said greater education and understanding about other cultures is necessary . This isn't just to understand Asian American Vermonters , but all Vermonters of color as well . Several , like Bang , said there need to be more Vermonters of color in positions of influence - not just as tokens , but as a sincere way to provide insight and equity . Yang hoped the Vermont Legislature would pick up H.329 , which works to strengthen protections under the law against discrimination and harassment . She said this would help overcome some of the legal barriers that currently exist in reporting these incidents . Bang said that since the Atlanta shooting , white residents have made a greater effort to reach out to her . She hopes it isn't just temporary action to make themselves feel like they aren't racist . " Don't use us to make yourself look better , but really understand the ability and talent that we have , " Bang said . " Really understand the beauty of what we can bring from different cultures and make this community richer . " Contact Elizabeth Murray at 802-651-4835 or emurray@freepressmedia.com . Follow her on Twitter at @Liz MurrayBFP . " We are an incredibly diverse group of people . To someone who is not Asian American , we are often seen as the same . We look the same , and in that sense we are treated the same . " Bor Yang Vermont Human Rights Commission Executive Director , who is originally from Laos and is ethnically Hmong Find more inside Resources for people who believe they have been the victim of bias , discrimination or hate . 7A Get help People who believe they have been the victim of bias , discrimination or hate can contact the following resources for help : For crimes motivated by hate , contact the local police department . Report hate crimes or bias incidents to the Vermont Attorney General's Office's Civil Rights Division : ( 888 ) -745-9195 or AGO.Civil Rights@vermont.gov . Report bias or discrimination to the Vermont Human Rights Commission : fill out a questionnaire at hrc.vermont.gov/how-to-file , or call 802-828-2480 . Copyright 2021 - BURLINGTON FREE PRESS - All Rights Reserved . Subject
Location
Title
Author
Publication title
First page
Publication year
Publication date
column
Section
Publisher
Place of publication
Country of publication
Publication subject
ISSN
Source type
Language of publication
Document type
ProQuest document ID
Document URL
Copyright
Last updated
Database
Violence;
Asian Americans;
Racism;
Coronaviruses;
COVID-19
China; United States--US; Vermont; Laos; Atlanta Georgia
Vermonters speak out: Racist incidents leave some residents shaken
Murray, Elizabeth
The Burlington Free Press; Burlington, Vt.
A.7
2021
May 2, 2021
anti-Asian hate
News
Gannett Media Corp
Burlington, Vt.
United States, Burlington, Vt.
General Interest Periodicals--United States
08948844
Newspaper
English
News
2520357412
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vermonters-speak-out/docview/2520357412/se-2?
accountid=10345
Copyright 2021 - BURLINGTON FREE PRESS - All Rights Reserved.
2021-05-02
Global Newsstream
Bibliography
Citation style: APA 7th - American Psychological Association, 7th Edition
Murray, E. (2021, May 02). Vermonters speak out: Racist incidents leave some residents shaken. The Burlington Free Press https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?
url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vermonters-speak-out/docview/2520357412/se-2?accountid=10345
Database copyright 2022 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved. Terms and Conditions Subject Location Title Author Publication title First page Publication year Publication date column Section Publisher Place of publication Country of publication Publication subject ISSN Source type Language of publication Document type ProQuest document ID Document URL Copyright Last updated Database Violence ; Asian Americans ; Racism ; Coronaviruses ; COVID - 19 China ; United States -- US ; Vermont ; Laos ; Atlanta Georgia Vermonters speak out : Racist incidents leave some residents shaken Murray , Elizabeth The Burlington Free Press ; Burlington , Vt . A.7 2021 May 2 , 2021 anti - Asian hate News Gannett Media Corp Burlington , Vt . United States , Burlington , Vt . General Interest Periodicals -- United States 08948844 Newspaper English News 2520357412 https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/vermonters-speak-out/docview/2520357412/se-2 ? accountid = 10345 Copyright 2021 - BURLINGTON FREE PRESS - All Rights Reserved . 2021-05-02 Global Newsstream Bibliography Citation style : APA 7th - American Psychological Association , 7th Edition Murray , E. ( 2021 , May 02 ) . Vermonters speak out : Racist incidents leave some residents shaken . The Burlington Free Press https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login ? url = https : //www.proquest.com/newspapers/vermonters-speak-out/docview/2520357412/se-2 ? accountid = 10345 Database copyright 2022 ProQuest LLC . All rights reserved . Terms and Conditions 