1135
world view
Asian healthcare workers in the 
COVID-19 pandemic: a long road to 
recovery
Asian healthcare workers have experienced racism during the COVID-19 pandemic, including 
from the medical community, with potentially long-term consequences for those affected.
A
lmost one and a half years ago, 
the first case of COVID-19 was 
confirmed in Wuhan, China, 
followed by a state of global health 
emergency due to a worldwide pandemic. 
Effective vaccines against COVID-19 were 
finally released, and over 40% of the US 
population has now been fully vaccinated. 
The battle of the United States versus 
COVID-19 seems to have reached the 
mitigation phase. However, for many living 
in this country, the detrimental effects of 
this virus may still be ongoing.
Long before the pandemic, the Asian 
population in the United States had 
been viewed and treated as the physical 
embodiment of foreignness and disease, and 
this stigma does not disappear because you 
are a medical worker wearing a white coat. 
As the stress levels of society elevated with 
the outbreak of a China-originated virus, the 
increase in negative bias against the Asian 
population was perhaps not surprising.
When I first moved to the United States 
to advance my career, it was right at the peak 
of the pandemic. News of racist assaults 
and ignorant attacks against Asians were 
broadcast, and I can recall some headlines 
saying ‘the assaults are spreading faster than 
the coronavirus’. Although I live in one of 
the most Asian-friendly states, in California, 
it was not easy to reassure myself and others 
about my personal safety.
While many can practice social isolation 
by working from home, most healthcare 
workers are still meeting people of all 
ethnic backgrounds and personal values. 
Born and raised in a country with limited 
understanding about racial discrimination, 
I was prepared for possible hostility from 
people of different skin colors. “To some, 
everyone with yellow skin either has COVID-
19, or should be partially responsible for the 
impact of COVID-19 in this country,” said 
one of my Asian American friends. Were 
Asian healthcare workers treated aggressively 
by racist patients? Yes. Were they teased 
disrespectfully on subjects about COVID-19? 
Of course. However, because of our jobs as 
healthcare workers, we are used to ignoring 
such comments and suppressing our feelings 
when we encounter discrimination.
I later realized that racism does not 
come only from patients. Occasionally, 
discrimination against Asians, including 
microaggressions, can be observed within the 
medical community. These microaggressions 
may be an anonymous comment in an 
online physician forum, a careless statement 
recorded in an academic interview, an 
ignorant joke told by some hospital workers 
passing by, or even an unconscious act of a 
colleague. Physical attacks are not common 
in our work environments, but emotional and 
verbal aggressions can be seen in all forms 
and from all sources. Are these comments 
repeated when people leave work and interact 
with others in non-medical professions? We 
cannot know. Nevertheless, with the public 
influence of healthcare workers, due to their 
professional roles, even the least intended 
discriminative language may worsen the 
overall effect on society. Sometimes I would 
tell myself, “You may need to fight not 
only the coronavirus, but also the racism 
in your working environment.” In the time 
of COVID-19, this fear of Asian healthcare 
workers can be easily learned.
It is undeniable that Asian healthcare 
workers have suffered from an aggravated 
negative bias because of the COVID-19 
pandemic. However, I have also learned 
to appreciate the opposite side of this; the 
pursuit of diversity and equality is also a 
shared goal for many in this country. Owing 
to my cultural background, in the past I 
was unaware that not being discriminated 
against on the basis of your skin color is 
essential for good mental health. Now I am 
grateful that I work in a department that has 
long focused on diversity and equality issues. 
I have also witnessed many non-Asian 
medical workers using their voices to help 
eliminate anti-Asian sentiments. Seeing the 
efforts of colleagues and strangers, I feel 
encouraged to speak up for other Asian 
healthcare workers who may or may not 
be lucky enough to feel safe, secure and 
respected during the COVID-19 pandemic.
With the rapid distribution of vaccines 
in the United States, it is estimated that 
normality may resume imminently. Beyond 
the control of COVID-19, it is unclear what 
other aspects of normality should be expected. 
The balance between public health and 
infection? The resumption of social activities? 
Or the recovery of a thriving economy? 
In addition to the number of infections 
and hospitalizations, the complications of 
aggravated racism in certain populations 
must be considered. Recovery from the social 
and psychological aspects of the COVID-19 
pandemic will take longer than recovery from 
the disease. This will require medical workers 
to attend to the racism-related experiences 
and mental health needs of not only their 
patients but also their co-workers.
COVID-19 swept through and shook 
the United States on multiple levels. 
The pandemic revealed not only the 
weakness of the human immune system 
and the US healthcare system but also 
the underestimated extent of racial 
discrimination in society and within the 
medical community. COVID-19 has taught a 
lesson that we are grateful for, but also fearful 
of. For many Asian healthcare workers, the 
negative experience we have gone through 
may not be cured or healed easily. The road 
to recovery is long, and for everyone working 
in the medical field, this is one important 
goal we should fight together for.
❐
Jo-Hsuan Wu 
  ✉
Shiley Eye Institute and Viterbi Family Department 
of Ophthalmology, University of California, San 
Diego, CA, USA.  
✉e-mail: Uuuuuu1swu@gmail.com
Published online: 28 June 2021 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41591-021-01424-4
Competing interests
The author declares no competing interests.
Credit: Shiley eye 
institute
Nature MediciNe | VOL 27 | JuLy 2021 | 1135 | www.nature.com/naturemedicine
