ProQuest
document 1 of 1
Full Text Newspaper
Fear, anxiety still lingers for Metro Atlanta Asian Americans
Fear, anxiety still lingers for Metro Atlanta Asian Americans. (2021, Jul 06). The News https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fear-
anxiety-still-lingers-metro-atlanta-asian/docview/2548936714/se-2?accountid=10345
Find a copy
Check One Search for Availability
http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88-
2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Acanadiannews&atitle=Fear%2C+anxiety+still+lingers+for+Metro+Atlanta +Asian+Americans
07-06&volume=&issue=&spage=&au=&isbn=&jtitle=The+News&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/
Abstract
None available.
Full Text
After six Asian women were killed in March, Nathalie Espinol was afraid to go places known for attracting Asian American crowds.
The 34-year-old avoided Asian grocery stores, restaurants, karaoke bars - anywhere that would make her feel "exposed" as a Filipina woman.
Though Espinol has since resumed trips to these spaces, her anxiety remains. Just last month, while shopping at the Duluth Mega Mart, she said she felt a "wave of fear"
as she realized how easily that location could be the subject of another attack.
"It reminded me that the pain we're carrying with us is always there, and it's hard to predict the triggers that will initiate that fear," Espinol said. "I don't want to have to
be fearful everywhere I go, and I don't want to have to deprive myself of going to spaces with other Asian Americans because I'm scared."
It's been more than three months since deadly shootings at three Atlanta-area businesses put a spotlight on Asian Americans across the country. As a year's worth of
increased hate crimes came to a head and Asian Americans of all generations and ethnicities mobilized, politicians and corporations issued statements promising not to
let violence go unnoticed.
Over three months later, many East and Southeast Asian Americans in metro Atlanta remain afraid of verbal or physical attacks. Some have grown exhausted from coping.
with that heightened fear while attempting to educate others on their community's struggles through a slowed #StopAAPIHate movement. Many are skeptical that any
substantial improvements occurred.
"I don't think anything has changed since the spa shootings," said Angela Jiang, a Singaporean-Taiwanese woman who grew up in Duluth and now lives in Buckhead.
"Nothing was really won besides a lot of resolutions and statements in support of the Asian American community that actually hasn't resulted in any material changes."
President Joe Biden signed the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act into effect on May 20. This legislation, introduced by two Asian lawmakers, intended to make reporting "COVID-
19 hate crimes" easier and tasked the Department of Justice with expediting hate crime reviews.
"We are committed to stop the hatred and the bias," Biden said as he signed the bill that acknowledged hate crimes as a "serious national problem."
Determining how to prevent incidents before they happen, however, has largely been left to Asian Americans themselves, as national efforts to promote visibility and
prevent violence reduced outside Asian American communities.
The sites of these tragedies reflect this diminished public interest: Aromatherapy and Gold Spas, two of the shooting locations, now appear closed, with no indication of
reopening. Where memorial flowers and signs once lined the entrances to those businesses, traffic cones now block the parking lot entrances amid scattered pieces of
trash.
Some Asian Americans fear that it will take more headlines and news reports of anti-Asian violence for substantive change to happen. Agnes Scott College student
Connie Tran, whose Vietnamese parents run a nail salon in Columbus, said he believes simply condemning hate crimes and increasing investment in law enforcement are
surface-level approaches that won't reduce discrimination.
"I'm a little wary because my mom and the other folks who run Asian-majority businesses feel like sitting ducks, waiting for the next instance to happen," Tran said. "It
feels like we're just walking around in a loop and not understanding the root cause of all this violence."
A May 2021 report from Asian advocacy group Stop AAPI Hate found that Asian Americans are still "experiencing unprecedented and growing health inequity issues
brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic and anti-AAPI hate."
While the pandemic worsened mental health for many in this country, researchers said Asian Americans who also encountered anti-Asian racism showed "elevated
symptoms of depression, anxiety, stress and physical symptoms."
"It's a responsibility for all of us in the community to be aware of what's happening and talk about it and educate people," Espinol said. "But this burden is falling on top
of us having to process this pain happening in our community, and it just feels so overwhelming."
Groups like the Asian American Resource Center (AARC), located in Duluth, expanded their mental health programs to field more requests for help. Handling that
increased interest, however, takes resources that have slowed in the months since the shootings, said AARC Managing Director Xavier Kim. ProQuest document 1 of 1 Full Text Newspaper Fear , anxiety still lingers for Metro Atlanta Asian Americans Fear , anxiety still lingers for Metro Atlanta Asian Americans . ( 2021 , Jul 06 ) . The News https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fear- anxiety - still - lingers - metro - atlanta - asian / docview / 2548936714 / se - 2 ? accountid = 10345 Find a copy Check One Search for Availability http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88- 2004 & rft_val_fmt = info : ofi / fmt : kev : mtx : journal & genre = article & sid = ProQ : ProQ % 3Acanadiannews & atitle = Fear % 2C + anxiety + still + lingers + for + Metro + Atlanta + Asian + Americans 07-06 & volume = & issue = & spage = & au = & isbn = & jtitle = The + News & btitle = & rft_id = info : eric / & rft_id = info : doi / Abstract None available . Full Text After six Asian women were killed in March , Nathalie Espinol was afraid to go places known for attracting Asian American crowds . The 34 - year - old avoided Asian grocery stores , restaurants , karaoke bars - anywhere that would make her feel " exposed " as a Filipina woman . Though Espinol has since resumed trips to these spaces , her anxiety remains . Just last month , while shopping at the Duluth Mega Mart , she said she felt a " wave of fear " as she realized how easily that location could be the subject of another attack . " It reminded me that the pain we're carrying with us is always there , and it's hard to predict the triggers that will initiate that fear , " Espinol said . " I don't want to have to be fearful everywhere I go , and I don't want to have to deprive myself of going to spaces with other Asian Americans because I'm scared . " It's been more than three months since deadly shootings at three Atlanta - area businesses put a spotlight on Asian Americans across the country . As a year's worth of increased hate crimes came to a head and Asian Americans of all generations and ethnicities mobilized , politicians and corporations issued statements promising not to let violence go unnoticed . Over three months later , many East and Southeast Asian Americans in metro Atlanta remain afraid of verbal or physical attacks . Some have grown exhausted from coping . with that heightened fear while attempting to educate others on their community's struggles through a slowed #StopAAPIHate movement . Many are skeptical that any substantial improvements occurred . " I don't think anything has changed since the spa shootings , " said Angela Jiang , a Singaporean - Taiwanese woman who grew up in Duluth and now lives in Buckhead . " Nothing was really won besides a lot of resolutions and statements in support of the Asian American community that actually hasn't resulted in any material changes . " President Joe Biden signed the COVID - 19 Hate Crimes Act into effect on May 20. This legislation , introduced by two Asian lawmakers , intended to make reporting " COVID- 19 hate crimes " easier and tasked the Department of Justice with expediting hate crime reviews . " We are committed to stop the hatred and the bias , " Biden said as he signed the bill that acknowledged hate crimes as a " serious national problem . " Determining how to prevent incidents before they happen , however , has largely been left to Asian Americans themselves , as national efforts to promote visibility and prevent violence reduced outside Asian American communities . The sites of these tragedies reflect this diminished public interest : Aromatherapy and Gold Spas , two of the shooting locations , now appear closed , with no indication of reopening . Where memorial flowers and signs once lined the entrances to those businesses , traffic cones now block the parking lot entrances amid scattered pieces of trash . Some Asian Americans fear that it will take more headlines and news reports of anti - Asian violence for substantive change to happen . Agnes Scott College student Connie Tran , whose Vietnamese parents run a nail salon in Columbus , said he believes simply condemning hate crimes and increasing investment in law enforcement are surface - level approaches that won't reduce discrimination . " I'm a little wary because my mom and the other folks who run Asian - majority businesses feel like sitting ducks , waiting for the next instance to happen , " Tran said . " It feels like we're just walking around in a loop and not understanding the root cause of all this violence . " A May 2021 report from Asian advocacy group Stop AAPI Hate found that Asian Americans are still " experiencing unprecedented and growing health inequity issues brought on by the COVID - 19 pandemic and anti - AAPI hate . " While the pandemic worsened mental health for many in this country , researchers said Asian Americans who also encountered anti - Asian racism showed " elevated symptoms of depression , anxiety , stress and physical symptoms . " " It's a responsibility for all of us in the community to be aware of what's happening and talk about it and educate people , " Espinol said . " But this burden is falling on top of us having to process this pain happening in our community , and it just feels so overwhelming . " Groups like the Asian American Resource Center ( AARC ) , located in Duluth , expanded their mental health programs to field more requests for help . Handling that increased interest , however , takes resources that have slowed in the months since the shootings , said AARC Managing Director Xavier Kim . Many like Espinol subsequently became more vigilant in how they proceeded about everyday life, particularly in groups of Asian Americans. For some, that meant staying
home more or enrolling in self-defense courses. Others, however, took more drastic measures.
"We are just scared, so that is the climate right now, it's everybody [being] afraid," said Daniel Fu, a 70-year old Indonesian man who purchased a gun after the
shootings.
President of the Korean Restaurant Association Southeast Andy Kim noted that many Asian-owned restaurants have hired security personnel or installed CCTV monitors
to deter potential aggressors.
Keun Soo Lee, who has operated Korean barbecue restaurant Honey Pig since 2007, said it was robbed for the first time after the shootings. Though he has since
installed cameras and trained staff on handling anti-Asian violence, Lee worries that disregard for Asian Americans could intensify.
"As a restaurant owner, the fear of that kind of hatred has increased," he said.
Veterinarian Jamie Cho said that even using her Korean surname is a potential risk. As Cho has opened a new practice, she explained she is more cautious when hiring
workers and considered whether to tint the windows.
"I'm more aware of the decisions I make because I know that just saying nothing and keeping quiet does not mean that I'm safe," Cho said. "I've feared and wondered,
could my picture or name affect my success?"
Despite slowed momentum and heightened fears, Asian American advocates new and old said they're focused on educating others and maintaining the coalitions that
formed in the wake of the shootings.
A rising battleground to increase Asian American visibility and reduce hate in the long term is K-12 schools, where a group of community members aim to implement Asian
American history curriculum. Georgia Korean Chamber of Commerce Vice President of External Affairs Michelle Kang explained that fighting ignorance with education is a
first step towards preventing hate.
"Asian Americans have been here since the 1850s, more than 170 years, but we're still considered as foreigners," Kang said. "It's not right... It's not just white people's
history."
Allison Wang, a Chinese nurse who helped plan rallies after the shootings, said as hosting in-person events grew "exhausting," making change in schools has become a
new source of hope. Having grown up in Tucker without a single course that discussed Asian American experiences, Wang wants to make sure her daughter learns about
her heritage.
"I am American, I've been naturalized to become an American citizen, but I'm also Chinese," Wang said. "I would like to have more people... who appreciate the fact that
I am Asian.
Kang is hopeful increased awareness will help Asian communities from Lebanon to Vietnam
—
move forward.
"We are more vigilant about what's going on outside of the Korean American community," Kang said. "We are watching out for each other."
Anjali Huynh, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
RELATED: More than half of Asian Canadians experienced racism, hate in past year: survey
RELATED: B.C. premier decries hate crimes after 6 Asian women killed in U.S. shooting
Copyright (c) 2021 Torstar Syndication Services
Subject
Fear & phobias;
Hate crimes;
Pandemics;
Violence;
Community;
Asian Americans;
Shootings;
Mental health;
Restaurants;
Coronaviruses;
COVID-19;
Anxiety
Subject:
Business indexing term
Location
Title
Publication title
Publication year
Publication date
Section
Publisher
Place of publication
Country of publication
Publication subject
ISSN
Source type
Language of publication
Document type
ProQuest document ID
Document URL
Copyright
Last updated
Database
Restaurants
United States--US; Atlanta Georgia
Fear, anxiety still lingers for Metro Atlanta Asian Americans
The News; Abbotsford, B.C.
2021
Jul 6, 2021
News
Torstar Syndication Services, a Division of Toronto Star Newspapers Limited
Abbotsford, B.C.
Canada, Abbotsford, B.C.
General Interest Periodicals--Canada
08393648
Newspaper
English
News
2548936714
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fear-anxiety-still-lingers-metro-atlanta-
asian/docview/2548936714/se-2?accountid=10345
Copyright (c) 2021 Torstar Syndication Services
2022-10-07
Global Newsstream
Bibliography
Citation style: APA 7th - American Psychological Association, 7th Edition
Fear, anxiety still lingers for Metro Atlanta Asian Americans. (2021, Jul 06). The News https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fear-
anxiety-still-lingers-metro-atlanta-asian/docview/2548936714/se-2?accountid=10345
Database copyright 2022 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved. Terms and Conditions Many like Espinol subsequently became more vigilant in how they proceeded about everyday life , particularly in groups of Asian Americans . For some , that meant staying home more or enrolling in self - defense courses . Others , however , took more drastic measures . " We are just scared , so that is the climate right now , it's everybody [ being ] afraid , " said Daniel Fu , a 70 - year old Indonesian man who purchased a gun after the shootings . President of the Korean Restaurant Association Southeast Andy Kim noted that many Asian - owned restaurants have hired security personnel or installed CCTV monitors to deter potential aggressors . Keun Soo Lee , who has operated Korean barbecue restaurant Honey Pig since 2007 , said it was robbed for the first time after the shootings . Though he has since installed cameras and trained staff on handling anti - Asian violence , Lee worries that disregard for Asian Americans could intensify . " As a restaurant owner , the fear of that kind of hatred has increased , " he said . Veterinarian Jamie Cho said that even using her Korean surname is a potential risk . As Cho has opened a new practice , she explained she is more cautious when hiring workers and considered whether to tint the windows . " I'm more aware of the decisions I make because I know that just saying nothing and keeping quiet does not mean that I'm safe , " Cho said . " I've feared and wondered , could my picture or name affect my success ? " Despite slowed momentum and heightened fears , Asian American advocates new and old said they're focused on educating others and maintaining the coalitions that formed in the wake of the shootings . A rising battleground to increase Asian American visibility and reduce hate in the long term is K - 12 schools , where a group of community members aim to implement Asian American history curriculum . Georgia Korean Chamber of Commerce Vice President of External Affairs Michelle Kang explained that fighting ignorance with education is a first step towards preventing hate . " Asian Americans have been here since the 1850s , more than 170 years , but we're still considered as foreigners , " Kang said . " It's not right ... It's not just white people's history . " Allison Wang , a Chinese nurse who helped plan rallies after the shootings , said as hosting in - person events grew " exhausting , " making change in schools has become a new source of hope . Having grown up in Tucker without a single course that discussed Asian American experiences , Wang wants to make sure her daughter learns about her heritage . " I am American , I've been naturalized to become an American citizen , but I'm also Chinese , " Wang said . " I would like to have more people ... who appreciate the fact that I am Asian . Kang is hopeful increased awareness will help Asian communities from Lebanon to Vietnam — move forward . " We are more vigilant about what's going on outside of the Korean American community , " Kang said . " We are watching out for each other . " Anjali Huynh , The Atlanta Journal - Constitution RELATED : More than half of Asian Canadians experienced racism , hate in past year : survey RELATED : B.C. premier decries hate crimes after 6 Asian women killed in U.S. shooting Copyright ( c ) 2021 Torstar Syndication Services Subject Fear & phobias ; Hate crimes ; Pandemics ; Violence ; Community ; Asian Americans ; Shootings ; Mental health ; Restaurants ; Coronaviruses ; COVID - 19 ; Anxiety Subject : Business indexing term Location Title Publication title Publication year Publication date Section Publisher Place of publication Country of publication Publication subject ISSN Source type Language of publication Document type ProQuest document ID Document URL Copyright Last updated Database Restaurants United States -- US ; Atlanta Georgia Fear , anxiety still lingers for Metro Atlanta Asian Americans The News ; Abbotsford , B.C. 2021 Jul 6 , 2021 News Torstar Syndication Services , a Division of Toronto Star Newspapers Limited Abbotsford , B.C. Canada , Abbotsford , B.C. General Interest Periodicals -- Canada 08393648 Newspaper English News 2548936714 https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fear-anxiety-still-lingers-metro-atlanta- asian / docview / 2548936714 / se - 2 ? accountid = 10345 Copyright ( c ) 2021 Torstar Syndication Services 2022-10-07 Global Newsstream Bibliography Citation style : APA 7th - American Psychological Association , 7th Edition Fear , anxiety still lingers for Metro Atlanta Asian Americans . ( 2021 , Jul 06 ) . The News https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/fear- anxiety - still - lingers - metro - atlanta - asian / docview / 2548936714 / se - 2 ? accountid = 10345 Database copyright 2022 ProQuest LLC . All rights reserved . Terms and Conditions 