Find a copy
document 1 of 1
Full Text | Newspaper
Atlanta spa shootings suspect charged with murder; too soon to tell if killings were racially
motivated, police say
Miller, R. W., Estwick, G., & Hayes, C. (2021, Mar 17). Atlanta spa shootings suspect charged with murder; too soon to tell if killings were
racially motivated, police say. USA Today (Online) https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/atlanta-spa-
shootings-suspect-charged-with-murder/docview/2501865666/se-2?accountid=10345
Check OneSearch for Availability
http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&
sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anorthcentralnews&
atitle=Atlanta+spa+shootings+suspect+charged+with+murder%3B+too+soon+to+tell+if+killings+were+racially+motivated%2C+police+say&
title=USA+Today+%28Online%29&issn=&date=2021-03-17&volume=&issue=&spage=&
au=Miller%2C+Ryan+W%3BEstwick%2C+Gary%3BHayes%2C+Christal&isbn=&jtitle=USA+Today+%28Online%29&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric
/&rft_id=info:doi/
Full Text
ATLANTA – Authorities on Wednesday said a gunman suspected of killing eight people, six of whom were Asian women, at three spas may
have frequented the businesses but that it was too early to determine if the shootings would be considered a hate crime.
At least four of the victims of the Atlanta-area spas shootings were women of Korean descent, South Korea's Foreign Ministry said
Wednesday. Two others were of Asian descent, police said.
Atlanta Police Chief Rodney Bryant said it was too soon in the investigation to say whether the shootings were a hate crime. "We are just not
there as of yet," Bryant said in a news conference early Wednesday.
The suspect, 21-year-old Robert Aaron Long of Woodstock, Georgia, was charged with eight counts of murder Wednesday in all three
shootings. Four of the counts against Long are related to shootings at two spas in Atlanta. The other four are related to shootings at a spa in
Cherokee County.
Long has not been charged with a hate crime, a specific charge that authorities must prove a crime was committed on the basis of race,
color, religion, gender, disability or sexual orientation. He purchased a firearm Tuesday – the day of the attacks – from Big Woods Goods, a
sporting good story in Cherokee County. Matt Kilgo, the shop's attorney, said his clients are "fully cooperating" with police. "Everything they
have will be turned over," Kilgo said.
Cherokee County Sheriff Frank Reynolds said Wednesday that Long told authorities that his actions were not racially motivated and that he
had a sex addiction.
"These locations, he sees them as an outlet for him, something that he shouldn't be doing," Cherokee County sheriff’s Capt. Jay Baker said.
"He was attempting to take out that temptation."
All three spas are listed on Rubmaps.ch, an erotic review site that allows users to search for and review illicit massage parlors. The site is the
most popular of its kind, where buyers who call themselves “hobbyists” or “mongers” looking for sex go to find and share information,
according to a study by Polaris, a nonprofit group that operates the National Human Trafficking Hotline.
More: Atlanta spa shootings: Illicit reviews raise red flags that shooter targeted vulnerable women
More: Atlanta-area spa shootings: Suspect officially charged after 8 people killed at 3 spas; most victims were Asian
Aromatherapy Spa and Gold Spa, both in Atlanta, have around 100 reviews, many recent. A review for Gold Spa on March 9 indicated that it
was “full service,” as did a similar review from five days prior. Young's Asian Massage in Acworth, Georgia, has 39 reviews on Rubmaps, the
latest posted in February.
Long's motivations are still being investigated, and a criminal record wasn't immediately found. In 2019, Long's parents reported him missing
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 1 頁，共 5 頁
12/20/2021 下午 06:54
when the then-19-year-old ran off with his girlfriend. "Their son sent them a text stating he was not returning home and wanted a fresh
start," the report says.
Authorities note in the 2019 report that his parents said Long was "not suicidal, did not take any medication, and had no mental illnesses."
Long never really made an impression in school, a former classmate said.
"He was always very reserved and quiet for the most part," said Emily Voigt, who attended elementary, middle and high school with Long.
"Never really stood out and a lot of us (who went to school with him) never really got the chance to know him deeper because he was very
shy."
Long and his father attended church most Sundays, services during the week and went on mission trips at Crabapple First Baptist Church in
Alpharetta, about 30 miles north of Atlanta, Brett Cottrell, a former youth minister told the Washington Post.
Elders at the church said in a statement that they were “grieved” to learn about the shooting Tuesday and are “heartbroken for all involved.”
Baker said Long indicated he intended to travel to Florida to carry out similar acts at "some type of porn industry" there. A 9mm firearm was
recovered from the suspect's car when he was arrested, Baker said.
There's been a rise in anti-Asian attacks. Here's how to be an ally to the community.
A visual timeline: What happened at Atlanta spa shootings
Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms said the spas in Atlanta were not on police's radar.
She acknowledged that the shootings are the latest incident in a string of violence nationwide against Asian Americans amid the COVID-19
pandemic.
"This is an issue that is happening across the country. It is unacceptable. It is hateful. It has to stop," Lance Bottoms said.
In Cherokee County, the victims were identified as Delaina Ashley Yaun, 33, of Acworth; Paul Andre Michels, 54, of Atlanta; Xiaojie Tan, 49,
of Kennesaw; and Daoyou Feng, 44.
Four others were killed at the two Atlanta spas, but police have not yet identified them.
Michels' younger brother, John Michels, 52, said he believes his brother was "just in the wrong place at the wrong time." He said they grew
up with a total of nine siblings in Detroit, riding dirt bikes and spending summer weekends at a lake and getting into mischief together. They
both served in the U.S. Army at the same time and his brother served as an infantryman in the late 1980s.
"I'm the closest in age, so we were basically like twins," John said. "We did everything together growing up."
John said Paul Michels owned an alarm company in Atlanta, where he and his wife, Bonnie, have lived 26 years. "He was just a very hard-
working Republican," John added, "and a very strong Trump supporter."
Even in grief, John insisted on putting out a message to the alleged slayer: "Although this is a tragedy, I forgive that man and so will Jesus
Christ... I cannot hate him for it. I pray for his repentance."
What we know about the Atlanta shootings: Suspect arrested after 8 people killed at 3 spas parlors
Stop AAPI Hate, a group that tracks incidents of discrimination and xenophobia against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, called the
incident an "unspeakable tragedy."
"This latest attack will only exacerbate the fear and pain that the Asian American community continues to endure," the group said.
Vice President Kamala Harris, the first African American and South Asian American woman to be elected vice president, called the incident
"tragic."
"The investigation is ongoing, we don’t yet know, we’re not yet clear about the motive. But I do want to say to our Asian American
community that we stand with you and understand how this has frightened and shocked and outraged all people."
The shootings first unfolded Tuesday evening in Acworth, about 30 miles north of Atlanta. Baker said five people were shot at Young's Asian
Massage Parlor. Two people were found dead on the scene. Three victims were taken to a hospital, where two later died.
About an hour after the shooting in Acworth, Atlanta police responded to a report of a robbery at Gold Spa in northeast Atlanta. Three women
were found dead there, Atlanta Police Sgt. John Chafee said. While police were responding, there was a report of shots fired across the street
at Aromatherapy Spa, where police found one woman dead, Chafee said.
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 2 頁，共 5 頁
12/20/2021 下午 06:54
Shortly after the first shooting, Cherokee County sheriff's officials released photos of the suspect, Reynolds said. Long's family immediately
contacted the department and helped authorities in tracking him.
Reynolds said authorities anticipated the suspect's next moves and called sheriff's officials in Crisp County, who worked with Georgia State
Patrol to stop Long. Long is to be arraigned Thursday morning, Reynolds added.
Lance Bottoms praised the swift coordination among law enforcement agencies.
Youngs Asian Massage, the scene of the first attack, is on a strip mall with five other shops, settled between a salon and a boutique. The
strip is on a busy road lined with similar strips malls.
A smoke shop, record store and tool shop sit farther down the strip. There is a vacant shop between Smoke South and RetroSound
Records.
Rita Barron, owner of Gabby’s Boutique, sits next door to the spa and described the owners and employees as hardworking.
Barron was in the shop with her husband and customers the night of the shooting. One of the bullets was shot through the shared wall,
near the baseboard of a wall lined with jackets for sale.
She said her husband noticed the suspect had been sitting in his vehicle outside the spa for about an hour before the attack.
Barron saw workers run out of the store, so she sent her husband to investigate. When he discovered what happened, they called 911.
She said they were not the first to call 911, and police showed up shortly after.
"I feel confused," she said, adding she'd never heard gunshots before and wondered what the noises were.
Barron said she knew several of the victims. Aside from the workers, one of those shot was a customer of hers who was in critical
condition, she said. Another is a waitress at a nearby Waffle House. She was killed.
The two spas in Atlanta, Gold Spa and Aromatherapy Spa, are two of several neighborhood businesses that are frequented during late
nights. Their customers and services remained discreet behind blacked out windows and parking lots behind buildings.
Gold Spa has a blacked-out glass door which prevents visibility from the outside. The windows are concealed by shutters that appear
rusted. At least one set of window covers appear to be held together with duct tape. The only thing visible inside is an LED ATM near the
front entrance.
Mallory Rahman and her 4-year-old daughter, Zara, left flowers on the steps of Gold Spa in Atlanta to pay respects to the young women
who were murdered there the night before.
“I told her that some people were hurt here that should not have been hurt. Some people were hurt by a bad person,” Rahman said. “I
know she’s young, but I also want to teach her from a young age.”
She said her family lives walking distance from the two spas on Piedmont Road, the site of the shootings. While she has not supported the
spas as a customer, she is sickened by the events.
“My mom is in town from out of state and we just cried. It’s just terrible,” Rahman said.
Nearby Aromatherapy Spa, Craig Barnes owns G Salon, a day spa he opened in this Piedmont Heights neighborhood in 1999.
The spas and strip clubs that share the Atlanta thoroughfare with Barnes were here when he arrived more than two decades ago, he said.
The immediate area includes a Mexican restaurant and pizzeria, auto repair shops, medical offices, a psychic and apartment lofts.
“Twenty-one years, no issues,” Barnes said. “I’ve never met anyone, never seen anyone there (at the site of Tuesday’s shooting) in 21
years. They’re quiet. They don’t do business at the same time I do.”
When Barnes shuts his doors to customers at 7 p.m. on weekdays and 6 p.m. on Saturdays, the 24-hour spas are preparing for a rush of
late-night guests.
Shannon Gott, owner of Backwoods Bowstrings, a hunting supply shop north of Atlanta, said Long shopped there about once a year for
arrows, and the store posted a photo of Long this past year on the store's web gallery after he "harvested an animal" during deer season.
"Apart from that, I know nothing about this idiot," Gott said.
According to Stop AAPI Hate, violence against Asian Americans has sharply increased since March 2020 when the COVID-19 pandemic
began. The group said Asian Americans have been blamed for the pandemic and connected the attacks to racist rhetoric from politicians,
including former President Donald Trump.
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 3 頁，共 5 頁
12/20/2021 下午 06:54
Subject
Hate crimes;
Law enforcement;
Pandemics;
Violence;
Asian Americans;
Resorts & spas;
Shootings;
Massage parlors;
Criminal investigations;
Robbery;
Murders & murder attempts;
Coronaviruses;
COVID-19
Location
United States--US; Georgia; Atlanta Georgia; South Korea
People
Bottoms, Keisha Lance
Identifier / keyword
Atlanta; Spas; Now; Criminal Investigations; Shootings; Disaster Accident and Tragedy; Crime;
Murder
Title
Atlanta spa shootings suspect charged with murder; too soon to tell if killings were racially
motivated, police say
Author
Miller, Ryan W; Estwick, Gary; Hayes, Christal
Publication title
USA Today (Online); Arlington
Publication year
2021
Publication date
Mar 17, 2021
Section
News
Publisher
USA Today, a division of Gannett Satellite Information Network, Inc.
Place of publication
Arlington
Country of publication
United States, Arlington
Publication subject
General Interest Periodicals--United States
e-ISSN
21651779
Source type
Newspaper
Language of publication
English
Document type
News
ProQuest document ID
2501865666
Document URL
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/atlanta-spa-
shootings-suspect-charged-with-murder/docview/2501865666/se-2?accountid=10345
Copyright
Copyright USA Today, a division of Gannett Satellite Information Network, Inc. Mar 17, 2021
Last updated
2021-03-18
Database
Global Newsstream
Stop AAPI Hate tracked nearly 3,800 incidents of hate, discrimination or attacks on Asian Americans from March 2020 through February
2021. At least 48 incidents have occurred in Georgia, the group said.
Sam Hu, a second-generation Korean American visiting Atlanta this week, spent early Wednesday morning trying to make sense of what
happened.
“The problem seems so insurmountable. I don’t even know where to try to begin. I think that’s why I’m so sad. It’s random, but it’s not.
It’s premeditated, but it’s not. ... I’m worried because it could happen anywhere.”
Hu said he believes Tuesday’s shootings are hate crimes. He wants local, state and federal officials to move fast to categorize them as
such. To not do so would be the latest disservice to Asian Americans, he said.
“I just couldn’t help but think that, like, that could have been me, my parents, my friends, my loved ones,” Hu said.
'Stop killing us': Attacks on Asian Americans highlight rise in hate incidents amid COVID-19
White House press secretary Jen Psaki said President Joe Biden had been briefed on the “horrific shootings” and administration officials
have been in contact with the mayor’s office and the FBI.
Meanwhile, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken was in South Korea on Wednesday morning to meet with Foreign Minister Chung Eui-
yong. He acknowledged the shooting and the fact that four of the victims were believed to be of Korean descent. “We are horrified by
this violence which has no place in America or anywhere,” Blinken said.
Georgia Gov. Brian Kemp said in a tweet he appreciated law enforcement's "quick apprehension" of Long.
"Our entire family is praying for the victims of these horrific acts of violence," the governor said.
Contributing: Cara Kelly, Erin Mansfield, Jordan Culver, Dennis Wagner and Elinor Aspegren, USA TODAY; The Associated Press
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: Atlanta spa shootings suspect charged with murder; too soon to tell if killings were
racially motivated, police say
Copyright USA Today, a division of Gannett Satellite Information Network, Inc. Mar 17, 2021
Bibliography
Citation style: APA 7th (basic) - No Case Changes (No Title Casing), DOI: empty
Miller, R. W., Estwick, G., & Hayes, C. (2021, Mar 17). Atlanta spa shootings suspect charged with murder; too soon to tell if killings
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 4 頁，共 5 頁
12/20/2021 下午 06:54
were racially motivated, police say. USA Today (Online) https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers
/atlanta-spa-shootings-suspect-charged-with-murder/docview/2501865666/se-2?accountid=10345
Database copyright © 2021 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved. Terms and Conditions
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 5 頁，共 5 頁
12/20/2021 下午 06:54
