 
I'm Chinese. That Doesn't Mean I Have the Virus. 
 
Tien, Celine . New York Times , Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y. [New York, N.Y]08 Mar 2020:
SR.2.
  
ProQuest document link
 
  
 
FULL TEXT
 
"If you're scared of me, get up and leave." 
LOS ANGELES -- I turned 24 last month. The day before my birthday, I walked into a nail salon to get myself a
birthday manicure. After I was seated, a nail technician walked over. She was an Asian woman in her 50s. She sat
down and I smiled at her. I couldn't see if she smiled back because she was wearing a face mask. 
The technician looked at my hands, as if considering their shape, and then suddenly asked, "Are you Chinese?" 
"I am," I responded. "Are you?" 
"No," she said quickly, "I am Vietnamese. We all are in the salon. But are you from-China Chinese?" She raised an
eyebrow, her tone like the edge of a blade, sharp and cold. 
I shifted uncomfortably in the seat, suddenly very aware she was holding my hands. "I'm from mainland China and
Taiwan." 
"You know, we are scared of you Chinese people," she said loudly, because you eat "weird" food "and bring it here.
Chinese people, I don't like you, you are so bad, so bad and so gross." 
There was a moment when I couldn't even hear what she was saying anymore. I could only focus on the slight
shifts in her face mask as she continued to rant. 
Finally, my voice cracking, I said: "I just came back from China in January. If you're scared of me, get up and leave."
The technician went silent. The manager, who had been listening nearby, ran over to intervene. When I looked up, I
realized everyone in the salon had been listening. I turned to the woman on my right, then to the other workers who
were to my left. Each person I turned to looked away. The room was silent. 
The manager made my nail technician leave and apologized quietly, offering a free manicure. I bit my lips to stop
the trembling. 
This past month, I've made less eye contact with people when I've walked outside. When I felt like coughing, I
smothered the urge by biting my tongue. When I went to shake someone's hand at a party, I instinctively scanned
their arm for the tiniest jerk back, a moment of hesitation. When I went to a restaurant in Santa Monica, Calif., the
awareness of my being the only Chinese person sat heavier in my gut than anything I ate at lunch. 
All the while, I watched news headlines snowball from unforgiving takedowns about Chinese people and their
supposed "hygiene problems" to random pictures of Asian-Americans walking down the street splayed as cover art
for articles about non-Asian coronavirus patients. 
It dawned on me: Sensational reporting and social media were making fear more contagious than the virus itself. 
I realized my friends in the United States read only the headlines about the coronavirus but knew nothing about the
stories behind them. They didn't hear from our family friend whose mother, a doctor, flew from Guangdong
Province to Wuhan to volunteer with thousands of other hospital workers. They didn't see the lines etched into
doctors' and nurses' faces from wearing face masks and goggles nonstop for weeks. 
My non-Asian friends don't have friends in China who carefully ration their meals into daily slivers because
supermarket shelves are empty. They don't see the internet activity in cities across Asia, where people come
together to comfort one another during quarantine, to be together even when they are apart. 
People in America aren't sharing enough of these stories because what they really want to share is fear. Fear
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 1 of 4
generated by the headlines that my friends whisper about over every meal. 
Fear arouses us more. Fear is viral. When fear is coursing through every group chat, Instagram story, news
headline, people don't stop to ask: Are we hurting anyone by perpetuating it? 
After I rushed home from the nail salon that day, my mother and I called the owner. We asked her to let us come
into her store and speak to her staff. The owner agreed. 
The next morning, my mother, two friends and I gathered in a circle with the entire salon staff of Asian women. At
first, no one said anything. But slowly, one by one, they started asking questions that revealed their foremost fear:
the coronavirus death rate. 
I brought up a report by the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention: It had the Covid-19 fatality rate at
2.3 percent. The latest report from the World Health Organization shows the global fatality rate at 3.4 percent, but
the rate varies from country to country. In South Korea, where thousands have been tested and 35 have died, the
rate is currently about 0.6 percent. 
And considering that the number cases that are not reported -- because of mild symptoms -- is probably high,
epidemiologists believe that the death rate could be under 1 percent, and even lower in China once you look
outside of Wuhan. About 80 percent of Covid-19 cases appear to be mild and do not require medical treatment.
They resolve on their own. Chinese analysts have found that 1.2 percent of Covid-19 cases are completely
asymptomatic. 
We also talked about how perpetuating harmful stereotypes that Chinese people eat "weird" food can be
detrimental not just to Chinese people but also to all Asians. After all, to many Americans, we all look the same. 
My voice a little unsteady, I shared with the women that the incident in the salon left me shaky for the rest of the
day. That by nighttime, my anger had melted away to tears, leaving me collapsed on the couch. 
But something haunted me more than the nail technician's rant: The silence in the room when everyone heard it. 
Silence is deafening. Silence is enabling. In my family people call me the pit bull because I'm the first to fight back
if someone attacks my people. In the one moment I tried and failed to be my own pit bull, no one stepped in to be
mine. 
At the end of our conversation, there was a brief silence, and then a woman stepped forward. She said quietly:
"This has happened to me too. People said bad things to me, too, because of virus." The manager, who had been
profusely apologizing, stopped. Her face softened to sadness. 
"Customers come in and ask me again and again, am I Chinese, have I been to China, do I have the virus," she said.
"I didn't know what to say before when people say bad things. Now I know." 
The coronavirus is serious. It is worth taking protective measures against. I am also wary of it. But in the past few
weeks, I've learned to be fearful of things possibly more contagious than Covid-19: racism and the silence of those
who witness it. 
If you see someone like me being harassed or attacked, step in. Say something. If you can't say something, at least
check on the person afterward. Share facts on social media about Covid-19, not fear. 
I have a little brother I want to protect and parents who I hope can walk into a store and not be made to feel
inhuman. With every word I write, I think: We cannot forsake love even in fear, because that's when we need it
most. 
Celine Tien is the founder and chief executive of Flowly: Relaxation Training, a mobile virtual reality app for chronic
pain and anxiety management. 
The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We'd like to hear what you think about this
or any of our articles. Here are some tips . And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com . 
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook , Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram . 
Photograph 
(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 
 
 
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 2 of 4
DETAILS
 
 
LINKS
Subject:
Beauty salons; Social networks; Fatalities; Coronaviruses; Fear &phobias; Racism;
Stereotypes; Public health; Anxieties; Disease control; Disease transmission;
Quarantine; COVID-19
Location:
China United States--US
Company / organization:
Name: World Health Organization; NAICS: 923120
URL:
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/07/opinion/coronavirus-asian-racism.html
Publication title:
New York Times , Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.
Pages:
SR.2
Publication year:
2020
Publication date:
Mar 8, 2020
Section:
SR
Publisher:
New York Times Company
Place of publication:
New York, N.Y.
Country of publication:
United States, New York, N.Y.
Publication subject:
General Interest Periodicals--United States
ISSN:
03624331
Source type:
Newspapers
Language of publication:
English
Document type:
Opinions, Commentary
ProQuest document ID:
2373440322
Document URL:
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/im-
chinese-that-doesnt-mean-i-have-virus/docview/2373440322/se-2?accountid=10345
Copyright:
Copyright New York Times Company Mar 8, 2020
Last updated:
2020-03-19
Database:
Global Newsstream
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 3 of 4
Check OneSearch for Availability
  
 
Database copyright  2021 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved.
 
Terms and Conditions   Contact ProQuest
PDF GENERATED BY PROQUEST.COM
Page 4 of 4
