Find a copy
Abstract
document 1 of 1
Full Text | Newspaper
Asian Americans are feeling under attack and largely alone
Liu, M., & Hatzipanagos, R. (2021, Feb 26). Asian Americans are feeling under attack and largely alone. The
Washington Post https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/asian-americans-
are-feeling-under-attack-largely/docview/2493270929/se-2?accountid=10345
Check OneSearch for Availability
http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&
genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awashingtonpost&
atitle=Asian+Americans+are+feeling+under+attack+and+largely+alone&title=The+Washington+Post&
issn=01908286&date=2021-02-26&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&
au=Liu%2C+Marian%3BHatzipanagos%2C+Rachel&isbn=&jtitle=The+Washington+Post&btitle=&
rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/
None available.
Full Text
They gather almost every night at San Francisco's Dragon Gate, the ornately decorated entrance to the nation's
oldest Chinatown. Armed with only whistles and pamphlets, the volunteer neighborhood patrol roams the
streets, checking out ATMs and mom-and-pop shops in areas where Asian residents have experienced attacks
that have left this neighborhood on edge.
Some volunteers drive more than an hour to walk these blocks - largely deserted by a combination of fear and
pandemic lockdown - to hand out bilingual fliers that explain how to report a crime to police. Similar patrols
have sprouted in Asian neighborhoods in Oakland, Calif., Los Angeles and New York City, a response to what
these communities say is a wave of racist violence and harassment since headlines about a virus from China
began appearing in U.S. media a year ago.
Data is scant, but at least two U.S. cities logged an increase in hate crimes against Asian Americans in 2020.
The New York Police Department reported at least 28 hate crimes that targeted Asian American victims last year,
compared with three the previous year. San Francisco's preliminary data shows that nine hate crimes targeted
Asian Americans in 2020, up from six the year before and four in 2018.
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 1 頁，共 6 頁
12/10/2021 下午 10:29
Several viral videos of attacks on Asian pedestrians this month have heightened concerns: a Filipino man
slashed with a box cutter on a New York City train; a 52-year-old woman shoved to the ground in Flushing,
Queens; a woman punched in the face on a New York subway platform; and a Los Angeles man beaten with his
own cane at a bus stop.
It's unclear whether the violence in each of those viral videos was racially motivated, but the incidents have left
Asian Americans feeling not only under attack but also largely alone in addressing neighborhood crime, with
many of the assailants remaining elusive. While some residents have joined neighborhood patrols, others are
arming themselves for protection. And still others have pushed for law enforcement to create task forces and
liaisons to better address neighborhood concerns.
"People are fed up about not being heard, not being seen and waiting for help," said Will Lex Ham, an activist
who has participated in the San Francisco Chinatown street patrols and organized rallies in New York. "We're not
getting the allyship we need, the resources we need. We have to pick ourselves up by the bootstraps."
Public attention to attacks on Asian Americans soared after 84-year-old Vicha Ratanapakdee was assaulted in
San Francisco last month. According to his son-in-law Eric Lawson, he was on his daily neighborhood walk and
recovering from multiple heart surgeries when he was shoved so violently that he later died.
"Thai grandpa," as he was known by community activists, became a rallying cry for celebrities and other Asian
Americans who added his face to their social media profile pictures. His daughter Amy Ratanapakdee believes it
was a hate crime.
"It's like a senseless act of violence and could happen to any one of us," she said, adding that her own children
have been called racial epithets on the street during the past year. "I want everyone to know how my father
died and hope that in his memory, people will join me to hope that justice presides."
A 19-year-old man has pleaded not guilty to murder in Ratanapakdee's attack. And a suspect has been arrested
in the case of Noel Quintana, the 61-year-old Filipino man whose face was slashed on a New York City subway
train as he traveled to work earlier this month.
"Nobody came, nobody helped, nobody made a video," he said.
Quintana reported the crime to police, and the suspect has been charged with assault. But many cases never
get that far.
Victims from marginalized communities can be reluctant to engage with police because of cultural differences,
language barriers or distrust. Even when they do report, proving that they were targeted because of their race is
difficult.
To fill in the data gap, some Asian American organizations are tracking these incidents on their own. Stop AAPI
Hate was launched last March to collect information on suspected cases of racially motivated violence and
harassment. (AAPI stands for Asian American Pacific Islander.) It received more than 2,808 self-reported
incidents from across the country by year's end.
Of those incidents, 9 percent were physical assaults and 71 percent were verbal attacks. Among the victims,
most were women, and about 126 reported being older than 60.
"We were flooded immediately with hundreds of incidents," said Russell Jeung, a professor of Asian American
studies at San Francisco State University, who helped launch the site. "We have large numbers of elderly
reporting that you wouldn't think would complain, but they knew racism when they experienced it."
Of the self-reported victims, 41 percent were Chinese, 15 percent were Korean, 8 percent were Vietnamese and
7 percent were Filipino. States with higher Asian populations report more incidents, with California most
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 2 頁，共 6 頁
12/10/2021 下午 10:29
represented followed by New York at about 13 percent.
But some Asian communities suspect that the rash of attacks is even worse than the data suggests. The
tendency to underreport is why Iona Cheng thinks her community in Oakland has become a target.
"They're attacking Asian women, often for cultural reasons. They don't speak out. They don't press charges.
They don't speak English well in some cases," said Cheng, who is Chinese American.
The 48-year-old cancer epidemiologist had just delivered a Christmas gift in late December when a group of
preteens tackled her to the ground, punched and robbed her. Police believe the same group stomped on an
Asian woman in her 60s later that night, breaking her kneecap.
"I can't walk outside the door of my house and feel safe," said Cheng, who added that someone called her
"coronavirus" while she was jogging last March in Oakland. "I just feel like that was taken from me."
Gun ownership has become a solution for some. David Liu, owner of Arcadia Firearm and Safety in the
predominantly Asian city of Arcadia, Calif., said his 2020 sales soared four times higher than in a typical year.
Liu said he saw an uptick in Asian Americans interested in purchasing firearms, but interest has been
skyrocketing among "basically everybody."
National gun sales are not tracked by race or ethnicity, but in a survey by the National Shooting Sports
Foundation last year, gun retailers estimated a nearly 43 percent average increase in sales to Asian customers
in the first half of 2020 - the smallest jump among the four reported racial or ethnic groups. By comparison,
the survey estimated an average sales increase of 52 percent to White customers and 58 percent to Black
customers.
San Francisco social worker Jason Gee decided to buy a handgun in the spring after a series of incidents that
included an assault, a home invasion and the breaking of his car windows. And on his way to buy the gun, in
the parking lot, four White men called him and his friend "the coronavirus" and "chinks."
While in line to buy the firearm, Gee said, he noticed that most of the customers were also Asian.
But he soon started to worry that his purchase was "playing to fear" and ultimately making his community
less safe, and decided to sell the firearm back.
"If you show up here . . . expecting violence, that may put you in a certain mind frame where you may
misread a situation and respond to it with violence."
Local leaders have made similar pleas, including Oakland Police Chief LeRonne Armstrong, who expressed
concern about civilian gun owners creating "unintended victims."
He held a news conference on Feb. 16 after a Chinatown shopkeeper was jailed for allegedly firing his weapon
at a man he believed was robbing a woman on the street. "We don't want people to fire weapons into our
community," he said. "While we appreciated people's interest in keeping our community safe, we want them
to observe and report."
That sentiment makes San Francisco gun owner Chris Cheng furious. Cheng, who describes himself as a
Second Amendment advocate, has owned a gun since 2008 and said friends and strangers have been
reaching out to him about gun ownership in response to the attacks.
"I think a lot of Asian Americans are realizing that the police can only do so much and that the police are not
always there to protect us," Cheng said. "They're only there to take the report."
Some law enforcement agencies have been trying to do more. Police departments in San Francisco and New
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 3 頁，共 6 頁
12/10/2021 下午 10:29
York City have set up task forces to focus on the issue and increased police presence in predominantly
Asian neighborhoods.
The 25 detectives on the NYPD's all-Asian task force speak 11 languages among them. In July, when an
89-year-old woman whose face had been slapped and shirt set on fire didn't initially cooperate with the
investigation, Deputy Inspector Stewart Loo, commanding officer of the task force, sent a detective who
speaks Cantonese to talk to her.
"She saw him, and it was like seeing her grandkids or something like that. She opened up," Loo said. "The
details [she gave] were very precise, very clear. And from that interview, she was able to ID the people
that tried lighting her on fire, which led to an arrest."
At least 18 people have been arrested in suspected hate crimes against Asian Americans in New York since
the attacks began in 2020, Loo said.
Many have placed blame for anti-Asian violence on former president Donald Trump, who repeatedly called
the coronavirus the "China virus" and "kung flu" during his time in office. The Anti-Defamation League
found that anti-Asian sentiment on Twitter spiked after Trump's October covid-19 diagnosis. Even before
that, about a third of Americans in a survey released in April reported witnessing someone blame Asian
people for the pandemic.
But Rep. Mark Takano (D-Calif.) says the problem runs deeper than the former president. During House
Democrats' roundtable discussion Friday about the attacks, Takano noted that "this sort of bias is latent
throughout American society, and it gets worse or less worse depending on the moment."
As far back as the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, which banned Chinese laborers from immigrating to the
United States, insidious ideas about Asian people's influence have fueled racist sentiments in the country.
The act was a product of the "yellow peril," a paranoia that Chinese immigrants were a threat to White
Americans' jobs and other aspects of Western life.
These ideas carried into the 20th century, when Chinese American Vincent Chin was fatally beaten in
Detroit in 1982 after two men allegedly mistook him for Japanese, a group that was being blamed for the
decline of U.S. automakers. Chin's assailants received a fine and probation for his death.
Tensions between Asian and Black communities also date back decades and have been reignited by videos
that show Black perpetrators in many of the recent attacks on Asian Americans. Those tensions are rooted
in the proximity in which the two under-resourced communities often live and work, while "fighting for
crumbs," said John C. Yang, president and executive director of Asian Americans Advancing Justice in
Washington.
That mutual suspicion has boiled over several times in recent history. In 1991, a Korean American
convenience store owner in Los Angeles accused 15-year-old Latasha Harlins of shoplifting before fatally
shooting her. The shopkeeper was convicted of voluntary manslaughter but served no jail time. A year
later, the acquittal of the Los Angeles police officers who beat Rodney King set off riots in the city, during
which many Korean shops were burned and looted.
"There was a sense that the shopkeepers were not respectful of the Black clientele, didn't trust the Black
clientele, and also overcharged the Black clientele," said Brenda Stevenson, a history professor at UCLA
and author of "The Contested Murder of Latasha Harlins: Justice, Gender and the Origins of the L.A. Riots."
"On the other side, the Korean American shopkeepers at the time felt that the clientele were dangerous
and untrustworthy. Some of them had been assaulted, some had been killed."
As the coronavirus pandemic has saddled low-income communities with economic hardships, community
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 4 頁，共 6 頁
12/10/2021 下午 10:29
Subject
Hate crimes;
Task forces;
Law enforcement;
Assaults;
Violence;
Asian Americans;
Criminal investigations;
Race;
Firearm laws & regulations;
Coronaviruses;
Neighborhoods;
Murders & murder attempts;
Firearms
Location
United States--US; New York; New York City New York;
Los Angeles California; San Francisco California
Title
Asian Americans are feeling under attack and largely alone
Author
Liu, Marian; Hatzipanagos, Rachel
Publication title
The Washington Post; Washington, D.C.
First page
A.1
Publication year
2021
Publication date
Feb 26, 2021
Section
A-Section
Publisher
WP Company LLC d/b/a The Washington Post
Place of publication
Washington, D.C.
Country of publication
United States, Washington, D.C.
Publication subject
General Interest Periodicals--United States
ISSN
01908286
Source type
Newspaper
Language of publication
English
Document type
News
ProQuest document ID
2493270929
Document URL
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com
/newspapers/asian-americans-are-feeling-under-attack-largely
/docview/2493270929/se-2?accountid=10345
Copyright
Copyright WP Company LLC d/b/a The Washington Post Feb 26,
2021
Last updated
2021-02-26
Database
Global Newsstream
callouts and social media posts seeking volunteers to help protect business owners and older residents
have proliferated in Asian American neighborhoods. The volunteer patrols pass out whistles so residents
can alert others to active crimes, and offer to walk with older neighbors as they run errands.
"Our community is hurting," said Kevin Chan, owner of Golden Gate Fortune Cookie, which has been a
stop for the San Francisco patrol. The Chinatown shop has been open for 58 years, but business has
declined by 80 percent since the pandemic, Chan said.
"Everybody is worried about what's happening, not just me, everybody in the community," he said.
"Because they just want to make a living and then people are attacking them just because they have a
store or they're walking on the street."
When it comes to anti-Asian sentiment, there are no boundaries to who could become a victim, said Tzi
Ma, known as Hollywood's go-to Asian father. The actor, in his 60s, said he was yelled at by a passerby
in a car to "be quarantined" while in a Whole Foods parking lot in Pasadena, Calif., at the beginning of
the pandemic, before the shutdowns.
"No matter what happens to us, no matter what contributions we make," Ma said, "all the prestige, all
the wealth that we've accumulated, we're still treated the same way."
marian.liu@washpost.com
rachel.hatzipanagos@washpost.com
Copyright WP Company LLC d/b/a The Washington Post Feb 26, 2021
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 5 頁，共 6 頁
12/10/2021 下午 10:29
Bibliography
Citation style: APA 7th (basic) - No Case Changes (No Title Casing), DOI: empty
Liu, M., & Hatzipanagos, R. (2021, Feb 26). Asian Americans are feeling under attack and largely
alone. The Washington Post https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com
/newspapers/asian-americans-are-feeling-under-attack-largely/docview/2493270929
/se-2?accountid=10345
Database copyright © 2021 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved. Terms and Conditions
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 6 頁，共 6 頁
12/10/2021 下午 10:29
