Find a copy
Abstract
document 1 of 1
Full Text | Newspaper
Asian Americans staying absent from classrooms
Balingit, M., Natanson, H., & Chen, Y. (2021, Mar 05). Asian Americans staying absent from classrooms. The
Washington Post https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/asian-americans-
staying-absent-classrooms/docview/2496764356/se-2?accountid=10345
Check OneSearch for Availability
http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&
genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Awashingtonpost&
atitle=Asian+Americans+staying+absent+from+classrooms&title=The+Washington+Post&issn=01908286&
date=2021-03-05&volume=&issue=&spage=A.1&
au=Balingit%2C+Moriah%3BNatanson%2C+Hannah%3BChen%2C+Yutao&isbn=&
jtitle=The+Washington+Post&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/
None available.
Full Text
Families fear infection in multigenerational homes, harassment at school
It's happening in well-to-do Pakistani households in the suburbs of Washington and among Chinese restaurant
workers in Philadelphia. It's happening among weary Filipino nurses in Queens, Hmong refugee families in
Minneapolis and in Silicon Valley's Asian American community.
As school buildings start to reopen, Asian and Asian American families are choosing to keep their children
learning from home at disproportionately high rates. They say they are worried about elderly parents in
cramped, multigenerational households, distrustful of promised safety measures and afraid their children will
face racist harassment at school. On the flip side, some are pleased with online learning and see no reason to
risk the health of their family.
In New York City, Asian American children make up the smallest share of children back in classrooms - just
under 12 percent - even though they represent 18 percent of all students. In Tennessee, less than half of Asian
families enrolled in Metro Nashville Public Schools opted for in-person learning, compared with nearly two-thirds
of White children.
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 1 頁，共 5 頁
12/18/2021 下午 06:34
In Chicago, two-thirds of White students chose in-person learning, while just a third of Asian, Black and Latino
students decided to head back. And in Fairfax County Public Schools, the largest district in Virginia, just over 30
percent of Asian families selected face-to-face instruction this spring, by far the smallest return rate reported
among any racial group.
The academic consequences could be devastating, warned Mya Baker of education nonprofit TNTP, which works
with school districts across the country to boost achievement among low-income and minority students. This is
especially true in communities of immigrant and refugee Asian families, she said, who are often overlooked due
to the pervasiveness of the "model minority myth."
In reality, many Asian communities face the same kinds of challenges that hold back Black and Latino students,
including poverty, language barriers and under-resourced schools. In New York City, more than 1 in 5 Asians live
in poverty, the second highest of any racial or ethnic group, according to city data.
According to the Pew Research Center, nearly 30 percent of Asians in the United States live in intergenerational
households, almost double the percentage of White households. And Asian Americans represent the most
economically divided racial group in the nation, with the success of the affluent obscuring the plight of the least
fortunate.
"Everyone makes assumptions that, 'Oh, Asian kids are doing better with virtual learning,' " Baker said. "The
reality is we're talking about families living in multigenerational households, families where English is not spoken
at home, so we're increasing barriers for those students who are already not performing well."
Baker said that is why it is essential for schools to work doubly hard to reach Asian families - about a third of
Asians in the United States have limited English proficiency - and to reassure them that their children will not be
targeted.
In Virginia and Maryland, Asian American students seem to be suffering smaller academic losses than their
Black and Latino classmates. But in other places, like Minneapolis, where the Southeast Asian refugee
community faces steep rates of poverty, students appear to be losing ground as fast or even faster than other
students of color. In fall 2019, about 7 percent of grades given to Asian students were F's. That percentage
more than quadrupled - to 30 percent - in the fall of 2020, according to the Sahan Journal, which reports on
Minneasota's immigrant communities.
Anxiety about being targeted
Many Asian Americans have been anxious of being targeted after President Donald Trump used racist language
to describe the coronavirus. Critics warned his repeated use of phrases like "Chinese virus" and "kung flu" could
escalate attacks on Asian Americans, who reported rising instances of harassment. Now, a spate of high-profile
attacks on Asian Americans has many in the community on edge.
In New York City, a Filipino man was slashed with a box cutter on the subway, an Asian woman was punched in
the face on a subway platform, and another woman was shoved to the ground in Flushing, a predominantly
Asian community in Queens. In Los Angeles, a man at a bus stop was beaten with his own cane, and a Thai
grandfather died after being pushed to the ground in San Francisco. It's unclear whether race motivated all the
crimes, but the incidents, combined with increasing reports of harassment and bullying, have heightened
anxiety in many communities.
The ripple effects among families weighing whether to send their children back are far-reaching.
In New York City, Liz OuYang, a Columbia University adjunct professor and civil rights attorney who specializes
in combating hate crimes, said some Asian American families are fearful about setting foot outside their homes.
OuYang, who directs an annual hate crime prevention art project for the nonprofit OCA-NY Asian Pacific
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 2 頁，共 5 頁
12/18/2021 下午 06:34
American Advocates, said parents and kids have shared stories of strangers harassing them, yelling at them
to "speak English" or "go back to your home country."
It has made some families fearful of sending their children on solo commutes to school. So instead, they keep
them home, learning remotely.
In New York City's Chinatown, a school principal said one mother moved her child from in-person learning to
remote learning after she and her child were harassed on the subway. Some families are so worried about
leaving their apartments that the school has shelled out funds to ship or hand-deliver supplies and packets to
them.
Parents have relayed the same fears in Philadelphia. Anna Perng, co-founder of the Chinatown Disability
Advocacy Project, said parents reported their children were being harassed on city buses. Then, over the
summer, police arrested a homeless woman for attacking a pregnant woman in Chinatown, calling her a slur
and punching her in the face.
That sent the anxiety in Philadelphia's Asian American communities into overdrive, Perng said, and now
threatens to deprive them of access to school-provided resources they badly need.
"Families have told me they're afraid to go to the school district to get things like worksheets, learning
supplies and the free meals the school district has been handing out since the pandemic started," Perng said.
Lisa Liu, whose two children attend Montgomery County Public Schools in Maryland, said she saw little reason
to send them back to classrooms when virtual learning seemed to be working well for them. But fear that
they would face harassment also played into her decision.
"Maybe if they go back, the other kids will say, 'You're the reason we didn't go to school for a year,' " Liu said.
"I don't want my kids to experience hatred."
Many in medical fields
But it is not just harassment that families worry about. Asian Americans are overrepresented in medical
fields, making up 6 percent of the population but 18 percent of the nation's doctors and 10 percent of its
nurse practitioners. It means they are more likely to have had firsthand experience with the virus.
Suzanne Lirazan, a 30-year-old nurse from the Philippines who lives in Queens, has seen the devastation of
the pandemic firsthand. She works as a private nurse, and in April the patient she was caring for fell ill after
contracting the coronavirus. She was at his bedside as he took his final breaths. Then she and the rest of the
household fell ill. She was unable to see her 9-year-old son, Gabriel De La Cruz, for an entire month as she
recovered and quarantined.
Lirazan worries her son could bring home the virus from school, a prospect that would not only be dangerous
for her, but for her patients, too.
"It's the fear of him getting sick, and transmission-wise, I don't want to get sick and transmit it with my
patients," Lirazan said. "My son, he's very social, he likes to study in school. But I just can't bring myself to
bring him there."
Lirazan said that sentiment is common in Filipino communities in New York and New Jersey, where many work
in health-care in jobs that put them in close contact with patients.
Preexisting conditions
For Nancy Lin, a Philadelphia mother of two who was laid off from her restaurant job when the pandemic
struck, the decision to keep her children remote was driven by something else: the school building. According
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 3 頁，共 5 頁
12/18/2021 下午 06:34
to her dispatches with other parents over the messaging app WeChat, many other Chinese families are
making the same decision.
They had complaints about the condition of the school even before the pandemic, of mold in the basement,
that bathrooms were dirty, and that heating and cooling systems were not in working order. They are the
same factors that are keeping other families of color - and teachers - out of school buildings.
Their concerns are not unfounded. An investigative series in 2017 by the Philadelphia Inquirer and Daily
News found widespread issues with asbestos and paint laced with lead. When the teachers union pushed
the school system to delay the start date of in-person classes, its leader cited the district's "absolutely
abysmal track record when it comes to addressing health and safety."
At Hmong International Academy in Minneapolis, Principal Jamil Payton said only a third of students in
prekindergarten through fifth grade have come back to the school building since they reopened last month.
The school serves a mix of students from the city's refugee communities - Hmong, Laotian, Cambodian and
Sudanese students. There were fewer than 100 students in the building the last week of February, a group
whose demographics roughly matched the school's.
The Hmong community has been hard-hit by the coronavirus. In June, Marny Xiong, a Hmong woman who
chaired of the St. Paul Board of Education, succumbed to the virus at the age of 31, devastating the
Hmong community. Xiong had worked as an administrator at Hmong International Academy and her loss
was felt deeply.
"We were hit like a ton of bricks by the passing of this staff member who was so beloved in our building
and our community," Payton said. He believes it is contributing to the reluctance of Hmong families to send
their children back to school buildings.
Swapping information
The decision for almost any family to send their children back to school can be wrenching, as they attempt
to balance the benefits of sending their children back to school with the risks - all while the death toll from
the pandemic mounts. So many are relying on parents from their own communities, swapping information
in group chats to make decisions.
Mehvish Ali, who is Pakistani American, had a lot to weigh when trying to decide whether to send her two
sons back to school in Loudoun County, a Northern Virginia suburb. Her oldest son, a seventh-grader, was
eager to get back to school to see his friends. But he also has a medical condition that makes him more
susceptible to the virus.
She is close with her neighbors, most of whom are Indian American, and her children are friends with their
children. The group chat had become a key source of support and information during the pandemic.
On WhatsApp, the consensus was clear.
"Everybody in the neighborhood that I know of said they were doing distance learning," Ali said. It made
the decision easier for her and for her son, who learned his friends would also be staying home from
school.
When it came time for Filipino American Julius Paras to decide whether to send his child back to school
outside San Jose, he and his wife, who is Chinese American, decided to convene a Zoom meeting with
relatives nearby. Many of them had come together as a pandemic pod, allowing the parents to split child-
care duties and the cousins to continue to see each other. They realized sending their children back to
classrooms could shatter their support system and possibly endanger his in-laws, who they visit for socially
distanced picnics in the elderly couple's driveway.
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 4 頁，共 5 頁
12/18/2021 下午 06:34
Subject
Public schools;
Parents & parenting;
Minority students;
Hispanic students;
Classrooms;
Fear & phobias;
Minority & ethnic groups;
Pandemics;
Families & family life;
Anxieties;
Asian Americans;
Crime prevention;
Coronaviruses;
Distance learning;
Households;
COVID-19;
Disease transmission
Location
United States--US; Maryland; New York City New York; Virginia
Title
Asian Americans staying absent from classrooms
Author
Balingit, Moriah; Natanson, Hannah; Chen, Yutao
Publication title
The Washington Post; Washington, D.C.
First page
A.1
Publication year
2021
Publication date
Mar 5, 2021
Section
A-Section
Publisher
WP Company LLC d/b/a The Washington Post
Place of publication
Washington, D.C.
Country of publication
United States, Washington, D.C.
Publication subject
General Interest Periodicals--United States
ISSN
01908286
Source type
Newspaper
Language of publication
English
Document type
News
ProQuest document ID
2496764356
Document URL
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com
/newspapers/asian-americans-staying-absent-classrooms/docview
/2496764356/se-2?accountid=10345
Copyright
Copyright WP Company LLC d/b/a The Washington Post Mar 5,
2021
Last updated
2021-03-05
Database
Global Newsstream
"We want our children to grow up not just with their aunts and uncles but also with their grandparents.
It's just this affinity for multigenerational living that comes from my Filipino culture and from my wife's
Chinese culture," Paras said. "When we thought about how to prioritize all of this, it came down to, 'Who
is our family? How do we look out for them?' And we decided home is what's safest."
moriah.balingit@washpost.com
hannah.natanson@washpost.com
yutao.chen@washpost.com
Copyright WP Company LLC d/b/a The Washington Post Mar 5, 2021
Bibliography
Citation style: APA 7th (basic) - No Case Changes (No Title Casing), DOI: empty
Balingit, M., Natanson, H., & Chen, Y. (2021, Mar 05). Asian Americans staying absent from classrooms.
The Washington Post https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers
/asian-americans-staying-absent-classrooms/docview/2496764356/se-2?accountid=10345
Database copyright © 2021 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved. Terms and Conditions
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 5 頁，共 5 頁
12/18/2021 下午 06:34
