ProQuest
document 1 of 1
Full Text
Newspaper
'This could have been me'
Lee, M. Y. H. (2021, May 30). 'This could have been me'. The Washington Post https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-could-
have-been-me/docview/2534011688/se-2?accountid=10345
The Washington Post
Find a copy
Check One Search for Availability
http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88-
2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev: mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ: ProQ%3Awashingtonpost&atitle=%27This+could+have+been+me%27&title=The+Washington+Post8
05-30&volume=&issue=&spage=A.13&au=Michelle
+Ye+Hee+Lee&isbn=&jtitle=The+Washington+Post&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/
Abstract
None available.
Full Text
When Kym Lee read about the victims, and the long hours they worked to support their families, she thought about her own mom.
Lee's family emigrated to Duluth, Ga., when she was 4 years old and opened a silk flower store at a sprawling flea market. Throughout her childhood, she and her
siblings worked weekends at their parents' business, which grew from one booth to two, then three - and eventually, a stand-alone store.
Nearly three decades later, Lee's mom still works 10 to 14 hours a day, every day, she said.
-
"What I appreciate about that is the hard work ethic that my parents instilled in me to get our homework and everything done, so we can work on the weekends so
we're selling things and studying and doing the best that we can," she said.
Lee read that the daughter of one of the slain women said her mom worked 12 hours every day. Lee thought: "That's my mom. That's 100 percent my mom."
"That's what a lot of immigrants do: You come here to just build a better life and give a better life for your family. You'll do whatever it takes."
After the shootings, Lee received a text relaying a warning about an active shooter targeting Asian businesses: Tell your Asian friends with businesses to shut down, and
don't come out tonight.
"That was Tuesday night, and all of the stories we were hearing, when I was trying to pull up news reports, it was just so confusing. Then the next day the narrative had
completely changed," she said, when the suspect told police that the shooting was not racially motivated.
"There's so many levels of injustice and racism in this, because we took the word of the shooter that it wasn't racism, but we didn't give that same benefit of the doubt to
the women, who now have no voices to speak."
Days after the shooting, Lee wrote a public post on her Facebook page addressed to the news media. She was upset and struggling to process the shootings, and
frustrated with the lack of details about the women and the speculations about whether they had been involved in sex work. She wrote:
"These women deserved so much more. To be remembered with respect and dignity. I grieve them and how they were so unjustly portrayed.
This could have been my grandma.
This could have been my mom.
This could have been me.
Media, do better. Recognize your racial biases, and don't let this happen again.
In their memory:
Soon Chung Park, age 74
Suncha Kim, age 69
Xiaojie "Emily" Tan, age 49
Hyun Jung Grant, age 51
Yong Ae Yue, age 63 ProQuest document 1 of 1 Full Text Newspaper ' This could have been me ' Lee , M. Y. H. ( 2021 , May 30 ) . ' This could have been me ' . The Washington Post https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-could- have - been - me / docview / 2534011688 / se - 2 ? accountid = 10345 The Washington Post Find a copy Check One Search for Availability http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88- 2004 & rft_val_fmt = info : ofi / fmt : kev : mtx : journal & genre = article & sid = ProQ : ProQ % 3Awashingtonpost & atitle = % 27This + could + have + been + me % 27 & title = The + Washington + Post8 05-30 & volume = & issue = & spage = A.13 & au = Michelle + Ye + Hee + Lee & isbn = & jtitle = The + Washington + Post & btitle = & rft_id = info : eric / & rft_id = info : doi / Abstract None available . Full Text When Kym Lee read about the victims , and the long hours they worked to support their families , she thought about her own mom . Lee's family emigrated to Duluth , Ga . , when she was 4 years old and opened a silk flower store at a sprawling flea market . Throughout her childhood , she and her siblings worked weekends at their parents ' business , which grew from one booth to two , then three - and eventually , a stand - alone store . Nearly three decades later , Lee's mom still works 10 to 14 hours a day , every day , she said . - " What I appreciate about that is the hard work ethic that my parents instilled in me to get our homework and everything done , so we can work on the weekends so we're selling things and studying and doing the best that we can , " she said . Lee read that the daughter of one of the slain women said her mom worked 12 hours every day . Lee thought : " That's my mom . That's 100 percent my mom . " " That's what a lot of immigrants do : You come here to just build a better life and give a better life for your family . You'll do whatever it takes . " After the shootings , Lee received a text relaying a warning about an active shooter targeting Asian businesses : Tell your Asian friends with businesses to shut down , and don't come out tonight . " That was Tuesday night , and all of the stories we were hearing , when I was trying to pull up news reports , it was just so confusing . Then the next day the narrative had completely changed , " she said , when the suspect told police that the shooting was not racially motivated . " There's so many levels of injustice and racism in this , because we took the word of the shooter that it wasn't racism , but we didn't give that same benefit of the doubt to the women , who now have no voices to speak . " Days after the shooting , Lee wrote a public post on her Facebook page addressed to the news media . She was upset and struggling to process the shootings , and frustrated with the lack of details about the women and the speculations about whether they had been involved in sex work . She wrote : " These women deserved so much more . To be remembered with respect and dignity . I grieve them and how they were so unjustly portrayed . This could have been my grandma . This could have been my mom . This could have been me . Media , do better . Recognize your racial biases , and don't let this happen again . In their memory : Soon Chung Park , age 74 Suncha Kim , age 69 Xiaojie " Emily " Tan , age 49 Hyun Jung Grant , age 51 Yong Ae Yue , age 63 Daoyou Feng, age 44
Delaina Yaun, age 33
Paul Andre Michels, age 54
- Signed, An Asian-American woman"
The weekend after the shooting, Lee marched with her children and her Korean American husband at a protest denouncing racism and violence toward Asians. They held
signs carrying the names and ages of the shooting victims. She explained to her children that Asians were being discriminated against which turned out to be an easier
conversation than she had anticipated, because she had taken them to Black Lives Matter protests.
"I just can't believe in 2021 we need Black Lives Matter signs and now we're fighting against anti-Asian hate."
"I took my daughter to one of the rallies. and was thinking, 'We have got to do better. For her.' The shooting sprees were about Asian women - grandmas, moms and
me but it's really about her."
-
When Shyu found out about the shootings through her friends, she heard the gunman was targeting Asian-owned businesses. She immediately thought of her mother,
who operates a hair salon on Atlanta's Buford Highway, catering to a mostly Asian clientele. The salon is located in a strip mall about eight miles from two of the three
spas the shooter targeted.
"It made me really nervous when I found out the information because that just hits so close to home," she said. "She works in a plaza called Pinetree Plaza. They're all
Asian-owned. He could've gone door to door. Real quick. It would've been super easy for him. It was really upsetting."
Shyu already worried about her mother working during the pandemic. Now she worries about her even more.
"Day in and day out, they have to use their bodies to make an income and have their livelihoods be okay. And to have that threatened . . . that just seems so harsh to
me."
Shyu, whose parents are immigrants from Taiwan, was born in the United States and was raised in a tightknit Taiwanese American community in Atlanta. She works as an
associate director at a media agency in San Francisco.
After the shooting, she purchased pepper spray for her mom.
"I asked her, 'Don't you feel anxious or scared?' And she said, 'Julia, what am I supposed to do? Am I supposed to be scared all the time? What's the point?' It made clear
to me I underestimate the fragility of it all."
-
You feel protective of your parents as children, Shyu said. But then she remembers the strength and resolve of first-generation immigrants like her parents, who left their
home countries to start new lives in America.
"There are a lot of things that come easy to us but not easy to them. Then I have to remind myself that actually, they made a life here on their own, so they're much more
resilient," she said. "My parents are much more strong than I give them credit for."
Whenever Thao Lee hears about a mass shooting, she worries for her three children, who are spread out across the country from Alaska to D.C. Nowadays, with a
pandemic and reports that Asians across the country are being harassed, she worries even more.
Lee is a refugee from Laos, who settled in Spokane, Wash., in 1985 at 16 years old. She and her husband gave their children both Hmong names and American names,
and they have a close, huge family. Word spreads fast, especially through Lee's mother, an avid listener of Hmong radio who calls her grandchildren individually whenever
she hears of a crisis.
The day of the shooting, the multiple family text and Facebook messaging chains went into overdrive as relatives checked in on one another, sharing tips on how to stay
safe and urging vigilance.
Lee's daughter, who goes by Monica, said it felt like the shooting validated a growing fear among her family and Asian American friends.
"Leading up to the shooting, all of these anti-Asian hate incidents were happening to our elders, right. And so I think just when the shooting happened in Atlanta, it just
compounded all the feelings that I think we were sort of suppressing at that time or didn't really know how to process yet," Monica said.
For Thao, the shooting reinforced her feeling of vulnerability during the pandemic. The shooting could have happened anywhere, she said.
"It could be me, it could be any of my children or anybody who is Asian now that because of all this going on. Even when I go to the store, I have to watch my back all the
time. If I have to sneeze or cough, I really have to look around to see who is around me, what are they going to act or how are they going to look at me," Thao said.
The Asian diaspora in America is diverse, including when it comes to socioeconomics. Hmong Americans tend to experience more poverty than many other Asian American
groups.
"We all know of women who work in these sort of working jobs," Monica said. "Being Hmong American also means that oftentimes we come from low-income working-
class backgrounds."
That includes her mother and her aunts, who took cleaning jobs at office buildings on the weekends to earn extra income for their families.
"I mean, that's exactly what our parents do, right? Especially immigrant Asian parents who will work double time, or work two or three jobs no matter how hard it is,"
Monica said, "just to make sure that their kids have better comfortable lives than they did."
Monica said the shooting made her wonder about the support and connections society provides to those who are often overlooked, especially people who work in lower-
wage jobs and have limited language capabilities.
"I always think about that like, you know, I love how these Go Fund Me's came to be. But on the flip side, it just it sucks that, like, why couldn't we have helped these
people beforehand?" Monica said. "Why were they subjected to these positions, and I guess their position in society, before the shooting happened?"
Kim moved to America from South Korea in 1999 as an eighth-grader, eventually settling in with a host family in Anchorage. After attending college in Montana, she moved
back to Anchorage to start working. But after her work permit fell through, she was no longer eligible to stay in the United States. Daoyou Feng , age 44 Delaina Yaun , age 33 Paul Andre Michels , age 54 - Signed , An Asian - American woman " The weekend after the shooting , Lee marched with her children and her Korean American husband at a protest denouncing racism and violence toward Asians . They held signs carrying the names and ages of the shooting victims . She explained to her children that Asians were being discriminated against which turned out to be an easier conversation than she had anticipated , because she had taken them to Black Lives Matter protests . " I just can't believe in 2021 we need Black Lives Matter signs and now we're fighting against anti - Asian hate . " " I took my daughter to one of the rallies . and was thinking , ' We have got to do better . For her . ' The shooting sprees were about Asian women - grandmas , moms and me but it's really about her . " - When Shyu found out about the shootings through her friends , she heard the gunman was targeting Asian - owned businesses . She immediately thought of her mother , who operates a hair salon on Atlanta's Buford Highway , catering to a mostly Asian clientele . The salon is located in a strip mall about eight miles from two of the three spas the shooter targeted . " It made me really nervous when I found out the information because that just hits so close to home , " she said . " She works in a plaza called Pinetree Plaza . They're all Asian - owned . He could've gone door to door . Real quick . It would've been super easy for him . It was really upsetting . " Shyu already worried about her mother working during the pandemic . Now she worries about her even more . " Day in and day out , they have to use their bodies to make an income and have their livelihoods be okay . And to have that threatened . . . that just seems so harsh to me . " Shyu , whose parents are immigrants from Taiwan , was born in the United States and was raised in a tightknit Taiwanese American community in Atlanta . She works as an associate director at a media agency in San Francisco . After the shooting , she purchased pepper spray for her mom . " I asked her , ' Don't you feel anxious or scared ? ' And she said , ' Julia , what am I supposed to do ? Am I supposed to be scared all the time ? What's the point ? ' It made clear to me I underestimate the fragility of it all . " - You feel protective of your parents as children , Shyu said . But then she remembers the strength and resolve of first - generation immigrants like her parents , who left their home countries to start new lives in America . " There are a lot of things that come easy to us but not easy to them . Then I have to remind myself that actually , they made a life here on their own , so they're much more resilient , " she said . " My parents are much more strong than I give them credit for . " Whenever Thao Lee hears about a mass shooting , she worries for her three children , who are spread out across the country from Alaska to D.C. Nowadays , with a pandemic and reports that Asians across the country are being harassed , she worries even more . Lee is a refugee from Laos , who settled in Spokane , Wash . , in 1985 at 16 years old . She and her husband gave their children both Hmong names and American names , and they have a close , huge family . Word spreads fast , especially through Lee's mother , an avid listener of Hmong radio who calls her grandchildren individually whenever she hears of a crisis . The day of the shooting , the multiple family text and Facebook messaging chains went into overdrive as relatives checked in on one another , sharing tips on how to stay safe and urging vigilance . Lee's daughter , who goes by Monica , said it felt like the shooting validated a growing fear among her family and Asian American friends . " Leading up to the shooting , all of these anti - Asian hate incidents were happening to our elders , right . And so I think just when the shooting happened in Atlanta , it just compounded all the feelings that I think we were sort of suppressing at that time or didn't really know how to process yet , " Monica said . For Thao , the shooting reinforced her feeling of vulnerability during the pandemic . The shooting could have happened anywhere , she said . " It could be me , it could be any of my children or anybody who is Asian now that because of all this going on . Even when I go to the store , I have to watch my back all the time . If I have to sneeze or cough , I really have to look around to see who is around me , what are they going to act or how are they going to look at me , " Thao said . The Asian diaspora in America is diverse , including when it comes to socioeconomics . Hmong Americans tend to experience more poverty than many other Asian American groups . " We all know of women who work in these sort of working jobs , " Monica said . " Being Hmong American also means that oftentimes we come from low - income working- class backgrounds . " That includes her mother and her aunts , who took cleaning jobs at office buildings on the weekends to earn extra income for their families . " I mean , that's exactly what our parents do , right ? Especially immigrant Asian parents who will work double time , or work two or three jobs no matter how hard it is , " Monica said , " just to make sure that their kids have better comfortable lives than they did . " Monica said the shooting made her wonder about the support and connections society provides to those who are often overlooked , especially people who work in lower- wage jobs and have limited language capabilities . " I always think about that like , you know , I love how these Go Fund Me's came to be . But on the flip side , it just it sucks that , like , why couldn't we have helped these people beforehand ? " Monica said . " Why were they subjected to these positions , and I guess their position in society , before the shooting happened ? " Kim moved to America from South Korea in 1999 as an eighth - grader , eventually settling in with a host family in Anchorage . After attending college in Montana , she moved back to Anchorage to start working . But after her work permit fell through , she was no longer eligible to stay in the United States . She was in her early 20s at the time and didn't have enough money to buy a ticket back home to Korea, she said. So she overstayed her visa.
She worked several jobs, including waitressing, and earned so little she could barely afford housing. Then she found out she was pregnant.
"When I was pregnant, I almost became homeless because I didn't have any money and it was hard. I thought about going to homeless women's shelter and things like
that, but I didn't want to risk myself," she said.
Instead, she applied for protection under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which grants legal status to some people who entered the country as
children and are unlawfully present. Even going to the hospital during her pregnancy made her fear deportation.
But she was approved and has been renewing with the program every two years since. She now works for a government agency and raises her 5-year-old son as a
single mother.
"I've come from basically zero to here. I am very thankful," she said.
Kim constantly fears losing all that she worked for, including her ability to take care of her son.
"In a sense I felt like, 'What if I was in a supermarket, or I was in the spa, and someone came in with a gun? Am I able to take care of my child if I were that person?
What is going to happen to my child?' I [read about] this one lady who had two boys. The two boys said how great of a mom she was, how she was trying really, really
hard. My heart ached."
When she saw that another victim was a Korean mother of mixed-race children, she saw in them herself and her own mixed-race son.
"I felt really bad for her sons, because my son is also half Korean, half White. And I know that her sons, both of her sons were mixed race, and I just somehow put myself
into her position. What if I were her? What if my son was the one who was interviewed this interview?"
Ming was born in Indiana to parents who emigrated from China and were the only ones in their families to live in the United States.
Her mother was in graduate school when she was born, so Ming was sent to live with her grandparents in China until her mother obtained her degree. Then, when Ming
was 4, her father died of cancer.
"Reading a lot about the women reminded me a lot about my mom and also my grandmother, who's still in China, but she is very much working class and has suffered
through a lot just to make sure her kids were able to have a better life. And I think my mom was the same way."
Ming was "thinking about her struggles in this country and trying to not just make enough money to support me but also dealing with so much racism and sexism along
the way. I really thought of my parents in these women."
End
End
End
Ming, a campaign manager for gender and worker justice at the advocacy organization Citizen Action of New York, said her first reaction to the shootings was: "Of course
this happened. It was the inevitable end point."
For months, many Asian Americans across the country had witnessed attacks and harassment spurred by the pandemic and had become increasingly anxious. Yet she still
felt there wasn't enough awareness of the xenophobia tied to the pandemic.
"I'm seeing a lot of Asian people, that this was the final wake-up call for them rather than all the hate that has gone on during the pandemic and all the racism that had
gone on beforehand, [and it] finally took a shooting to get them to pay attention."
Among the things that too many people seemed to newly learn about Asian Americans in the wake of the shooting: that there is a growing contingent of them in the
South. Ming grew up in Texas and North Carolina, two states where the Asian American population has increased.
Ad
"People always forget that there are Asians in the South. There's a level of invisibility, when in actually, there are so many Asians in places like Georgia and Texas."
"I definitely feel like I'm still processing," Ming said in an interview late April, more than a month and a half after the shootings. She is constantly reminded of the
shootings and other violent attacks in her work, which is focused on social justice and advocacy. As the only person of Asian descent in her organization, it can feel
isolating to process it alone.
"Having that constant stream of images and video of violence has made it very hard to process and hard to grieve," Ming said. "I think it's going to be an ongoing
grieving process."
They represented a diverse community: A single mother of two sons in their early 20s. Two emigrated from South Korea in the 1980s. A grandmother of six in a multiracial
family with relatives in Japan. A Chinese American mother who owned two spa businesses. One had no family in the United States.
Six of the eight people who died in the Atlanta-area spa shootings in March were women of Asian descent. They represented a diaspora that includes some 50
ethnicities, even more languages and dialects, and countless experiences.
Yet despite the diversity of the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) experience, the women's deaths resonated throughout the community in a distinctly familiar
way.
And they particularly hit home for many Asian American women: That could have been my mother, my grandmother. It could have been me.
So different, yet somehow so similar: That has long been a characteristic of the Asian diaspora in America, said Eileen Cheng-yin Chow, a professor of Asian American and
diaspora studies at Duke University: The "idea of 'people like you' as Asian Americans has been strangely specific yet diffuse."
"My immigrant experience is not the same as these women, but I felt it in my bones. Because to be here is to be the same," Chow said. She was in her early 20s at the time and didn't have enough money to buy a ticket back home to Korea , she said . So she overstayed her visa . She worked several jobs , including waitressing , and earned so little she could barely afford housing . Then she found out she was pregnant . " When I was pregnant , I almost became homeless because I didn't have any money and it was hard . I thought about going to homeless women's shelter and things like that , but I didn't want to risk myself , " she said . Instead , she applied for protection under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program , which grants legal status to some people who entered the country as children and are unlawfully present . Even going to the hospital during her pregnancy made her fear deportation . But she was approved and has been renewing with the program every two years since . She now works for a government agency and raises her 5 - year - old son as a single mother . " I've come from basically zero to here . I am very thankful , " she said . Kim constantly fears losing all that she worked for , including her ability to take care of her son . " In a sense I felt like , ' What if I was in a supermarket , or I was in the spa , and someone came in with a gun ? Am I able to take care of my child if I were that person ? What is going to happen to my child ? ' I [ read about ] this one lady who had two boys . The two boys said how great of a mom she was , how she was trying really , really hard . My heart ached . " When she saw that another victim was a Korean mother of mixed - race children , she saw in them herself and her own mixed - race son . " I felt really bad for her sons , because my son is also half Korean , half White . And I know that her sons , both of her sons were mixed race , and I just somehow put myself into her position . What if I were her ? What if my son was the one who was interviewed this interview ? " Ming was born in Indiana to parents who emigrated from China and were the only ones in their families to live in the United States . Her mother was in graduate school when she was born , so Ming was sent to live with her grandparents in China until her mother obtained her degree . Then , when Ming was 4 , her father died of cancer . " Reading a lot about the women reminded me a lot about my mom and also my grandmother , who's still in China , but she is very much working class and has suffered through a lot just to make sure her kids were able to have a better life . And I think my mom was the same way . " Ming was " thinking about her struggles in this country and trying to not just make enough money to support me but also dealing with so much racism and sexism along the way . I really thought of my parents in these women . " End End End Ming , a campaign manager for gender and worker justice at the advocacy organization Citizen Action of New York , said her first reaction to the shootings was : " Of course this happened . It was the inevitable end point . " For months , many Asian Americans across the country had witnessed attacks and harassment spurred by the pandemic and had become increasingly anxious . Yet she still felt there wasn't enough awareness of the xenophobia tied to the pandemic . " I'm seeing a lot of Asian people , that this was the final wake - up call for them rather than all the hate that has gone on during the pandemic and all the racism that had gone on beforehand , [ and it ] finally took a shooting to get them to pay attention . " Among the things that too many people seemed to newly learn about Asian Americans in the wake of the shooting : that there is a growing contingent of them in the South . Ming grew up in Texas and North Carolina , two states where the Asian American population has increased . Ad " People always forget that there are Asians in the South . There's a level of invisibility , when in actually , there are so many Asians in places like Georgia and Texas . " " I definitely feel like I'm still processing , " Ming said in an interview late April , more than a month and a half after the shootings . She is constantly reminded of the shootings and other violent attacks in her work , which is focused on social justice and advocacy . As the only person of Asian descent in her organization , it can feel isolating to process it alone . " Having that constant stream of images and video of violence has made it very hard to process and hard to grieve , " Ming said . " I think it's going to be an ongoing grieving process . " They represented a diverse community : A single mother of two sons in their early 20s . Two emigrated from South Korea in the 1980s . A grandmother of six in a multiracial family with relatives in Japan . A Chinese American mother who owned two spa businesses . One had no family in the United States . Six of the eight people who died in the Atlanta - area spa shootings in March were women of Asian descent . They represented a diaspora that includes some 50 ethnicities , even more languages and dialects , and countless experiences . Yet despite the diversity of the Asian American and Pacific Islander ( AAPI ) experience , the women's deaths resonated throughout the community in a distinctly familiar way . And they particularly hit home for many Asian American women : That could have been my mother , my grandmother . It could have been me . So different , yet somehow so similar : That has long been a characteristic of the Asian diaspora in America , said Eileen Cheng - yin Chow , a professor of Asian American and diaspora studies at Duke University : The " idea of ' people like you ' as Asian Americans has been strangely specific yet diffuse . " " My immigrant experience is not the same as these women , but I felt it in my bones . Because to be here is to be the same , " Chow said . We spoke with 10 Asian American women across the country about the connection they feel to the six slain women, despite living drastically different lives. They shared
stories about the sacrifices of their immigrant parents and grandparents, and the resilience required to assimilate in a country where Asians face ongoing harassment
and xenophobia.
In 2008, Hatta was one of about 10 people working at the Arkansas Democratic Party headquarters when a gunman opened fire and killed Bill Gwatney, the state party
chairman.
Hatta, a public affairs consultant and artist, has worked on several political campaigns, including Bill Clinton's campaigns in 1992 and 1996. She settled down in Arkansas
in 2005 after working there on a presidential campaign.
Hatta frequently gets calls from people checking in on her whenever a mass shooting occurs. That's how she found out about the Atlanta shooting.
"People reach out to me when these things happen. Sometimes it's worse than others. Sometimes it's unfortunately just another shooting," she said. "But this one is
different in that workplace ones always kind of hit a little close to home. And being primarily women and then Asian women, it was just a little harder, because obviously I
identify as both."
Hatta grew up in a small town of 10,000 people in a northeastern Ohio. Her mother is White. Her father, who is Japanese, came to the United States in 1961 for college,
where he met his wife.
She spent gap year in Tokyo, where her father is from, in the 1980s. People would ask her: "Isn't America so dangerous? Don't people pull out guns all the time?"
Decades later, there have been so many mass shootings and so many people whose lives have been permanently altered by gun violence. But for Hatta, the Atlanta
shooting impacted her on multiple levels.
There was a familiar banality of the circumstances: The victims were simply people who showed up for work that day, like herself in 2008. They were immigrants, like
Hatta's father who came to America for new opportunities.
When Hatta found out six of the victims were of Asian descent, she thought about the fact that the thousands of verbal, physical and online attacks reported to the Stop
AAPI Hate hotline since the outbreak of the pandemic have been disproportionately reported by women.
"You add a gun to the situation and Asian women are even more vulnerable. . . . Knowing people who chose to come here and made life, and just to have something
like this happen - I don't want to say it's worse than if it happened to someone else, but it adds so many layers as to why it hurts."
"You see people getting attacked for being Asian, and it's just kind of like: Where are we?"
Lee, a retired college dean, is a fourth-generation American who was born and raised in San Francisco. She remembers hearing about the experiences her older relatives
had with discrimination and assimilation. For example, her uncles changed their last names from Leong to Way, which is not immediately recognizable as Chinese, so they
could blend in professionally. They were strategic about it, she said: Don't make waves. Don't make trouble.
Her dad "had lots of stories to tell us about how they were discriminated against, and they learned strategies to protect themselves and to deal with the racism that
they just came to accept, in terms of treatment."
"That generation [my parents and grandparents], really, the thinking was: Come here. Lay low. Get your education."
Lee and her husband, a Korean American, have built their family with an eye toward making progress over the isolation and discrimination that their elder generations.
faced. They adopted two children from Korea and tried to make sure they always felt they belonged and were fully integrated into a diverse their community.
"As parents, we were very intentional about the decisions we made, in terms of where we were, where we lived, what schools, what friends we wanted them to grow up
with," she said about her children, who are both adults now.
But she and her husband had hoped to see more progress by now.
"I still have an elderly aunt and uncle who live in the city. We go and have dinner with them every Sunday night and it doesn't feel safe in San Francisco, because of
what's been happening across the country," she said. "And I have not felt unsafe like this in my lifetime. I just haven't."
She said she believes former president Donald Trump and his attacks on China have played an outsize role in fomenting an environment of disdain toward Asian
Americans.
"I know that there's a lot of mental health problems that we will face as a society because of covid, and I think that's part of it [the attacks]," she said. "But I believe that
Trump calling it 'China virus' or 'kung flu,' that that kind of mentality, that kind of hatred and ignorance and racism that comes from a person who's the president of this
country, trickles down."
Lee's reaction to the shootings in Atlanta: Shock. Sadness. And somehow familiarity, like the stories she had heard about her parents and grandparents.
"I think every immigrant's story is similar in some ways, where they just all want the same thing," she said. "They want to be safe. They want to have food and housing.
They want their children to have an education. They want to get a house at some point. It just seems like, why can't we make that possible?"
continued on next page
Mariah Hatta
50, Little Rock, Japanese American
Kym Lee
38, Smyrna, Ga., Taiwanese American
Julia Shyu
29, San Francisco, Taiwanese American
Thao Lee and daughter Pajouablai Monica Lee
52, St. Paul, Minn. and 29, Berkeley, Calif., and Anchorage; Hmong American
HJ Kim
38, Fayetteville, Ga., Bangladeshi American We spoke with 10 Asian American women across the country about the connection they feel to the six slain women , despite living drastically different lives . They shared stories about the sacrifices of their immigrant parents and grandparents , and the resilience required to assimilate in a country where Asians face ongoing harassment and xenophobia . In 2008 , Hatta was one of about 10 people working at the Arkansas Democratic Party headquarters when a gunman opened fire and killed Bill Gwatney , the state party chairman . Hatta , a public affairs consultant and artist , has worked on several political campaigns , including Bill Clinton's campaigns in 1992 and 1996. She settled down in Arkansas in 2005 after working there on a presidential campaign . Hatta frequently gets calls from people checking in on her whenever a mass shooting occurs . That's how she found out about the Atlanta shooting . " People reach out to me when these things happen . Sometimes it's worse than others . Sometimes it's unfortunately just another shooting , " she said . " But this one is different in that workplace ones always kind of hit a little close to home . And being primarily women and then Asian women , it was just a little harder , because obviously I identify as both . " Hatta grew up in a small town of 10,000 people in a northeastern Ohio . Her mother is White . Her father , who is Japanese , came to the United States in 1961 for college , where he met his wife . She spent gap year in Tokyo , where her father is from , in the 1980s . People would ask her : " Isn't America so dangerous ? Don't people pull out guns all the time ? " Decades later , there have been so many mass shootings and so many people whose lives have been permanently altered by gun violence . But for Hatta , the Atlanta shooting impacted her on multiple levels . There was a familiar banality of the circumstances : The victims were simply people who showed up for work that day , like herself in 2008. They were immigrants , like Hatta's father who came to America for new opportunities . When Hatta found out six of the victims were of Asian descent , she thought about the fact that the thousands of verbal , physical and online attacks reported to the Stop AAPI Hate hotline since the outbreak of the pandemic have been disproportionately reported by women . " You add a gun to the situation and Asian women are even more vulnerable . . . . Knowing people who chose to come here and made life , and just to have something like this happen - I don't want to say it's worse than if it happened to someone else , but it adds so many layers as to why it hurts . " " You see people getting attacked for being Asian , and it's just kind of like : Where are we ? " Lee , a retired college dean , is a fourth - generation American who was born and raised in San Francisco . She remembers hearing about the experiences her older relatives had with discrimination and assimilation . For example , her uncles changed their last names from Leong to Way , which is not immediately recognizable as Chinese , so they could blend in professionally . They were strategic about it , she said : Don't make waves . Don't make trouble . Her dad " had lots of stories to tell us about how they were discriminated against , and they learned strategies to protect themselves and to deal with the racism that they just came to accept , in terms of treatment . " " That generation [ my parents and grandparents ] , really , the thinking was : Come here . Lay low . Get your education . " Lee and her husband , a Korean American , have built their family with an eye toward making progress over the isolation and discrimination that their elder generations . faced . They adopted two children from Korea and tried to make sure they always felt they belonged and were fully integrated into a diverse their community . " As parents , we were very intentional about the decisions we made , in terms of where we were , where we lived , what schools , what friends we wanted them to grow up with , " she said about her children , who are both adults now . But she and her husband had hoped to see more progress by now . " I still have an elderly aunt and uncle who live in the city . We go and have dinner with them every Sunday night and it doesn't feel safe in San Francisco , because of what's been happening across the country , " she said . " And I have not felt unsafe like this in my lifetime . I just haven't . " She said she believes former president Donald Trump and his attacks on China have played an outsize role in fomenting an environment of disdain toward Asian Americans . " I know that there's a lot of mental health problems that we will face as a society because of covid , and I think that's part of it [ the attacks ] , " she said . " But I believe that Trump calling it ' China virus ' or ' kung flu , ' that that kind of mentality , that kind of hatred and ignorance and racism that comes from a person who's the president of this country , trickles down . " Lee's reaction to the shootings in Atlanta : Shock . Sadness . And somehow familiarity , like the stories she had heard about her parents and grandparents . " I think every immigrant's story is similar in some ways , where they just all want the same thing , " she said . " They want to be safe . They want to have food and housing . They want their children to have an education . They want to get a house at some point . It just seems like , why can't we make that possible ? " continued on next page Mariah Hatta 50 , Little Rock , Japanese American Kym Lee 38 , Smyrna , Ga . , Taiwanese American Julia Shyu 29 , San Francisco , Taiwanese American Thao Lee and daughter Pajouablai Monica Lee 52 , St. Paul , Minn . and 29 , Berkeley , Calif . , and Anchorage ; Hmong American HJ Kim 38 , Fayetteville , Ga . , Bangladeshi American Susan Lee
70, Hercules, Calif., Chinese American
Copyright WP Company LLC d/b/a The Washington Post May 30, 2021
Subject
Business indexing term
Location
Title
Author
Publication title
First page
Publication year
Publication date
Section
Publisher
Place of publication
Country of publication
Publication subject
ISSN
Source type
Language of publication
Document type
ProQuest document ID
Document URL
Copyright
Last updated
Database
Parents & parenting;
Families & family life;
Asian Americans;
Racism;
Mass murders;
Age;
Hmong people;
Demonstrations & protests;
Employment;
Pandemics;
Black Lives Matter movement
Subject:
Employment
Atlanta Georgia; United States--US
'This could have been me'
Michelle Ye Hee Lee
The Washington Post; Washington, D.C.
A.13
2021
May 30, 2021
A-Section
WP Company LLC d/b/a The Washington Post
Washington, D.C.
United States, Washington, D.C.
General Interest Periodicals--United States
01908286
Newspaper
English
News
2534011688
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-could-have-been-me/docview/2534011688/se-2?
accountid=10345
Copyright WP Company LLC d/b/a The Washington Post May 30, 2021
2021-10-04
Global Newsstream
Bibliography
Citation style: APA 7th American Psychological Association, 7th Edition
-
Lee, M. Y. H. (2021, May 30). This could have been me'. The Washington Post https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-could-
have-been-me/docview/2534011688/se-2?accountid=10345
Database copyright 2022 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved. Terms and Conditions Susan Lee 70 , Hercules , Calif . , Chinese American Copyright WP Company LLC d / b / a The Washington Post May 30 , 2021 Subject Business indexing term Location Title Author Publication title First page Publication year Publication date Section Publisher Place of publication Country of publication Publication subject ISSN Source type Language of publication Document type ProQuest document ID Document URL Copyright Last updated Database Parents & parenting ; Families & family life ; Asian Americans ; Racism ; Mass murders ; Age ; Hmong people ; Demonstrations & protests ; Employment ; Pandemics ; Black Lives Matter movement Subject : Employment Atlanta Georgia ; United States -- US ' This could have been me ' Michelle Ye Hee Lee The Washington Post ; Washington , D.C. A.13 2021 May 30 , 2021 A - Section WP Company LLC d / b / a The Washington Post Washington , D.C. United States , Washington , D.C. General Interest Periodicals -- United States 01908286 Newspaper English News 2534011688 https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-could-have-been-me/docview/2534011688/se-2 ? accountid = 10345 Copyright WP Company LLC d / b / a The Washington Post May 30 , 2021 2021-10-04 Global Newsstream Bibliography Citation style : APA 7th American Psychological Association , 7th Edition - Lee , M. Y. H. ( 2021 , May 30 ) . This could have been me ' . The Washington Post https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/this-could- have - been - me / docview / 2534011688 / se - 2 ? accountid = 10345 Database copyright 2022 ProQuest LLC . All rights reserved . Terms and Conditions 