尋找副本
摘要
第 1 個文件，共 1 個
全文 | Newspaper
In This Dinner Series, Chinese Food Is at Home Worldwide
Morgan, R. (2020, Aug 18). In This Dinner Series, Chinese Food Is at Home Worldwide. New York Times
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/newspapers/this-dinner-
series-chinese-food-is-at-home/docview/2434919925/se-2?accountid=10345
Check OneSearch for Availability
http://p9003-sfx.calstate.edu.falcon.lib.csub.edu/csub?url_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi
/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&
atitle=In+This+Dinner+Series%2C+Chinese+Food+Is+at+Home+Worldwide&title=New+York+Times&
issn=03624331&date=2020-08-18&volume=&issue=&spage=&au=Morgan%2C+Richard&isbn=&
jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/
沒有可用項目。
全文
Lucas Sin, the executive chef at Junzi Kitchen, assembling Distance Dining meals in
partnership with Teranga, Pierre Thiam’s Senegalese restaurant in East Harlem on
June 25, 2020. Sin’s collaborative project at Junzi Kitchen shows the global reach of
his home country’s cuisine. (Jenny Huang/The New York Times)
Firefox
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=...
第 1 頁，共 7 頁
10/5/2021 下午 10:05
Lucas Sin was recently telling a Dominican cook about hong dou sha, a red bean soup popular as a chilled
Cantonese summer dessert. “Oh, yeah,” Sin recalled the cook’s saying, “habichuelas con dulce.”
The Dominican Eastertime dessert, also a cold red bean soup, is spiced with cloves, while the Chinese treat is
cinnamon-driven, and the Dominican version has more milk, but the dishes are unmistakable culinary cousins.
It was an aha moment, unlocking for both chefs the cuisine of China’s far-flung diaspora. “We didn’t know,” Sin
said, “because how often do Chinese and Dominican chefs really talk?”
As far back as the ancient Silk Road and up through the diasporas of the 19th and 20th centuries, Chinese
émigrés have made their homes across the world. Wherever they did, local riffs on recipes — then riffs upon
riffs — were born.
Consider the halal Hui dishes of Cairo, chop suey in San Francisco, egg rolls in New York, a deep-fried
shumailike beef dimmy in Sydney, Big Mac baos in Toronto or sweet-and-sour fish in the Chinês clandestinos of
Lisbon, Portugal. Some, such as Kazakhstan’s laghman noodles, are national staples. There are whole cuisines
— Chuka in Japan or Chifa in Peru — made up of interpreted Chinese recipes, including dishes as common as
ramen or lomo saltado. All are satellite culinary provinces of mainland China.
Such has been the view of Sin, 27, a wunderkind chef who first opened a restaurant at 16 in an abandoned
factory in Hong Kong, then ran a diner out of his dorm room at Yale. He is now the executive chef at Junzi
Kitchen, a fledgling fast-casual chain serving modern Chinese food.
Because that food did not exist in the Hong Kong of his youth, Sin has an unabashed love of Chinese American
fare, especially at Wo Hop, an 82-year-old classic in Manhattan’s Chinatown. “It was new to me, and so exciting
that it didn’t occur to me for years that Chinese food is too simple and monolithic in the U.S.,” he said.
He was disturbed, then, by how easily anti-Asian sentiment and violence surged — even in places like New York
— as the coronavirus pandemic shut down the planet. Strangers tossed half-filled cans of beer at him. One
threw a long, fluorescent light bulb at him like a javelin.
“It took me coming to New York to start really understanding what it meant to be a minority,” he said. “It’s
disappointing that people who like our food and eat our food all the time are so quick to attack and deface
Chinese restaurants.”
To counter the parochialism of quarantine, in March Sin started Distance Dining (“a dinner series about how
Chinese food connects the world”) to highlight dishes of the Chinese emigrant population — at 10.7 million, the
world’s third-largest, behind Mexico’s 11.8 million and India’s 17.5 million. They call themselves sanju, which
translates to “scattered living.”
The pop-up meals — which are put together at Junzi from elements prepared by Sin and collaborating chefs —
are available by delivery roughly once a week and accompanied by an Instagram Live session explaining their
origins and interplay.
China is home to some 56 officially recognized ethnic groups, and the culinary trend for Chinese food in recent
years has leaned toward Imperial recipes and hyperregional cuisines — Fujianese, Hunanese, Sichuanese,
Shanghainese, Uighur, Xianese, Yunnanese. But Sin’s program, by provocative contrast, has embraced the
authenticity of Chinese cuisine’s globalism while avoiding “fusion,” a term that has widely curdled into a slur
among gourmands.
“This is confluence, not influence,” Sin said.
Andrew Doro, a Chinese American food blogger intent on eating dishes from every nation in the world, without
leaving New York City, favors Guyanese Chinese dishes like fried bangamary (a fish) and crispy cha chi gai.
Firefox
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=...
第 2 頁，共 7 頁
10/5/2021 下午 10:05
“There are so many more types of Chinese food than even most Chinese people realize,” Doro said.
Sin was suddenly partnering with celebrated restaurants left and right: Malaysian lobak and buckwheat mochi
with Kopitiam, Taiwanese pineapple egg tart with Spot Dessert Bar, Thai khao soi and Yunnanese paoluda with
Fish Cheeks, or Vietnamese bun bo Teochew and che bap with Madame Vo. Collaborations serve up to 200
diners, and two superfans have eaten all of the 14 meals so far.
As the zeitgeist shifted from pandemic panic toward rage for racial equity, inspired by the killing of George
Floyd, Sin tweaked his program: Soon he was messaging with Kia Damon and Ghetto Gastro, a collective of
food lovers based in the Bronx.
They discussed dishes as varied as yakamein, the Afro-Chinese soup of New Orleans — which Sin made with
Damon for one dinner — or what chef Eddie Huang and others call “hood Chinese” food, like the chicken
wings served in many New York neighborhoods. The Chinese diaspora, it turns out, is remarkably agile.
“China is this incredible beacon in food,” said Marcus Samuelsson, the Ethiopian-Swedish host of “No Passport
Required,” who has made Harlem his home. “We’re relearning about heritage, culture and history. That’s not
just happening in the food world but everywhere. We see it in taking down monuments, for example. We’re
having a really important conversation in America and, if America is having it, very often the world is having
it.”
Sin’s mission is beyond gastro-diplomacy, approaching gastro-activism, using the culinary intersections as
conversational starting points. Chefs are happy to join in.
Damon, founder of Supper Club From Nowhere, a culinary history project inspired by civil rights chef Georgia
Gilmore, cheered Sin’s request to collaborate. Amid what she called exhausting “Black for pay” propositions,
designed to help brands burnish their political credentials by partnering with people of color, she called
Distance Dining “a breath of fresh air.”
“He’s already doing the work in himself,” she said. “There’s relief because I’m not doing this work alone. I’m
not having this conversation alone.”
Damon, whose mother is Gullah Geechee and father is Creole, sighed. “When we face those ugly parts of us
and our distance, and we come together to reconcile with that, what does that taste like?” she said. “I want
to look back and know what I was doing during the great COVID pandemic of 2020, when there was a
nationwide, global movement for all Black lives. I want to know that I’m proud of what I was doing. I was
cooking for a better future, cooking for a better me. When everything feels so bad, doing this feels good.”
Chintan Pandya, chef at Adda Indian Canteen in Long Island City, Queens, said Distance Dining was an
opportunity to showcase dishes that are authentic in a surprising way. The chile chicken he made with Sin, for
example, was invented in the 1970s, when soy sauce and cornstarch were substituted for garam masala by
members of the Chinese community that has flourished for decades in Kolkata.
“It’s a very nostalgic dish,” Pandya said. “We’ve grown up eating it. The way we were exposed to Chinese
food was this dish. What General Tso’s is to America, this dish is for India. It’s integral.”
But the Chinese diaspora is not all about history or nostalgia. China is an emerging power in Africa, for
example, and Pierre Thiam, chef of Teranga, in East Harlem, has noticed the nascent Chinatown of his native
Dakar, the capital of Senegal.
His collaboration with Sin used dawadawa (fermented locust beans) in an efo riro stew, as a nod to douchi
(China’s fermented black beans), as well as fonio, a Senegalese grain, as tribute to China’s ancient, pre-rice
Five Grains. They were substitutions he borrowed from his home kitchen, cooking with his fiancée, Lisa, who
is Chinese-Japanese. Sin’s Eight Treasures pudding, in turn, was evocative of similar Senegalese desserts like
Firefox
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=...
第 3 頁，共 7 頁
10/5/2021 下午 10:05
sombi and thiakry.
“When I first came to New York and wanted to cook something with dawadawa, I would go to Chinatown
and get fermented beans there,” Thiam said. “The closest substitute I could get to the flavors of home
would be the Chinese markets. There’s going to be a revolution in cuisine because Chinese are getting
more prominent in Africa. I’m looking forward to that.”
Sin’s idea, however, is not exactly new to anyone who has raved about Mei Lin’s mapo lasagna at
Nightshade in Los Angeles, or the XO tartare at C.A.M. in Paris, or who remembers David Chang’s mapo
ragù in 2006. And half a century ago, Chinese-Cuban restaurants sprang up across Manhattan. Chinese
crossover has been on menus both divey and luxurious.
Sin’s approach is emboldened and elevated by current events. After the death of Floyd, Sin knew the value
of solidarity, he said, having seen it for years in Hong Kong’s own protests.
Two years of collaboration at the Museum of Food and Drink, he added, taught him that “African American
cooking really is the bedrock of American food culture.” The Black Lives Matter movement got him to act on
that knowledge, embracing the cuisines of communities in crisis.
Sin’s new education has been tumultuous. He said he now knows that Chinese restaurants have often seen
historically redlined African American communities as “decent business opportunities,” which can become a
potentially exploitative relationship.
He is more and more angry at what he calls the white supremacy of the Anglicized renaming of “pot
stickers” or “soup dumplings,” for example, in ways that are not applied to bratwurst, paella, pâté or
ravioli. He has become more offended that Chinese food is “at the bottom of the price-point food chain”
and more appreciative of flavors like the sweet-and-sour mumbo sauce of Chinese restaurants in
Washington, D.C., because it’s “not part of the white palate.”
Overall, he said, Distance Dining has amplified his creative sense of possibility — and cross-cultural
optimism. His aim is to make the dinners permanent.
“Many people celebrate history and tradition with food,” said Cecilia Chiang, the 99-year-old godmother of
Chinese restaurants nationwide, who has eaten at the storied Chinese restaurants of Kolkata and recalled a
terrible lo mein Bolognese in Rome. “This year, with the virus and everything, people say: ‘Take me back!
Take me back to how it was before!’ Not so many celebrate the future now. But Lucas does.
“Lucas is so ambitious. The stories he wants to tell are too long to be spoken, but perfect for being eaten.”
—
Distance Dining: For more information, junzi.kitchen/distancedining.
Firefox
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=...
第 4 頁，共 7 頁
10/5/2021 下午 10:05
Lucas Sin, the executive chef at Junzi Kitchen, seasons Cornish hens with a blend of
Chinese dry rub and Senegalese chicken yassa in Harlem on June 25, 2020. Sin’s
collaborative project at Junzi Kitchen shows the global reach of his home country’s
cuisine. (Jenny Huang/The New York Times)
Sichuan-roasted Cornish hen with doubanjiang onion confit at Junzi Kitchen in East
Harlem on June 25, 2020. Lucas Sin’s collaborative project at Junzi Kitchen shows
the global reach of his home country’s cuisine. (Jenny Huang/The New York Times)
Firefox
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=...
第 5 頁，共 7 頁
10/5/2021 下午 10:05
主題
Collaboration;
Chefs;
Cooking;
Pandemics;
Chinese Americans;
Meals;
Recipes;
Restaurants;
Diaspora;
Beans
商業索引術語
主題:
Restaurants
地點
New York; India; Africa; China; Hong Kong
識別碼/關鍵字
Lifestyle; Epidemics; Culture (Arts);
Social Conditions And Trends; Asian Americans;
Science And Technology; Computers And The Internet;
Kia Damon mixes a succotash of okra, tomatoes, corn, Sichuan spice and
doubanjiang in Harlem on June 25, 2020. Lucas Sin’s collaborative project at Junzi
Kitchen shows the global reach of his home country’s cuisine. (Jenny Huang/The New
York Times)
Efo riro, a West African stew, at Teranga in East Harlem on June 25, 2020. Lucas
Sin’s collaborative project at Junzi Kitchen shows the global reach of his home
country’s cuisine. (Jenny Huang/The New York Times)
Copyright New York Times Company Aug 18, 2020
Firefox
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=...
第 6 頁，共 7 頁
10/5/2021 下午 10:05
Agriculture And Farming; Seafood; Medicine And Health;
Washington (Dc); Vietnam; United States; Toronto (Ontario);
Taiwan; Sweden; Senegal; San Francisco (Calif); Rome (Ga);
Queens (Nyc); Portugal; Peru; Paris (France); New York City;
New Orleans (La); Mexico; Manhattan (Nyc); Malaysia;
Los Angeles (Calif); Long Island City (Queens, Ny);
Lisbon (Portugal); Kolkata (India); Kazakhstan; Japan; India;
Hong Kong; Harlem (Manhattan, Ny); Georgia; Ethiopia;
East Harlem (Manhattan, Ny); Dakar (Senegal); Cuba;
Chinatown (Los Angeles, Calif); China; Cairo (Ga); Bronx (Nyc);
Africa; Teranga (Manhattan, Ny, Restaurant); Supper Club;
Nightshade (Los Angeles, Calif, Restaurant);
Museum Of Food And Drink (Brooklyn, Ny); Junzi Kitchen;
Instagram Inc; Adda Indian Canteen (Queens, Ny, Restaurant);
Thiam, Pierre; Samuelsson, Marcus; Pandya, Chintan;
Huang, Eddie; Chiang, Cecilia; Chang, David (Chef); Privacy;
Dating And Relationships; Discrimination; Chinese Americans;
Museums; Instant Messaging; Desserts; Soups; Pudding; Pasta;
Quarantines; Grain; Beans; Chefs; Race And Ethnicity; Sushi;
Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Black People; Food; Restaurants;
Politics And Government; Cooking And Cookbooks;
Quarantine (Life And Culture)
標題
In This Dinner Series, Chinese Food Is at Home Worldwide
作者
Morgan, Richard
出版物名稱
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.
出版年份
2020
出版日期
Aug 18, 2020
國際換日線
2020-08-18 @ 17:56
出版者
New York Times Company
出版地
New York, N.Y.
出版國家/地區
United States, New York, N.Y.
出版物主题
General Interest Periodicals--United States
ISSN
03624331
來源類型
Newspaper
出版物語言
English
文件類型
News
ProQuest 文件識別碼
2434919925
文件 URL
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www-proquest-
com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/newspapers/this-dinner-series-chinese-
food-is-at-home/docview/2434919925/se-2?accountid=10345
著作權
Copyright New York Times Company Aug 18, 2020
最後更新
2020-08-19
資料庫
Global Newsstream
參考書目
引文樣式: APA 7th - No Case Changes (No Title Casing), DOI: empty, Annotated
Morgan, R. (2020, Aug 18). In This Dinner Series, Chinese Food Is at Home Worldwide. New York
Times https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu
/newspapers/this-dinner-series-chinese-food-is-at-home/docview/2434919925
/se-2?accountid=10345
資料庫著作權 © 2021 ProQuest LLC。 保留所有權利。條款和條件
Firefox
https://www-proquest-com.falcon.lib.csub.edu/printviewfile?accountid=...
第 7 頁，共 7 頁
10/5/2021 下午 10:05
