Find a copy
Abstract
document 1 of 1
Full Text | Newspaper
A Tense Lunar New Year for the Bay Area After Attacks on Asian Americans
Cowan, J. (2021, Feb 12). A Tense Lunar New Year for the Bay Area After Attacks on Asian Americans. New York
Times https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/tense-lunar-new-year-bay-
area-after-attacks-on/docview/2488726154/se-2?accountid=10345
Check OneSearch for Availability
http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev:mtx:journal&
genre=article&sid=ProQ:ProQ%3Anytimes&
atitle=A+Tense+Lunar+New+Year+for+the+Bay+Area+After+Attacks+on+Asian+Americans&
title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2021-02-12&volume=&issue=&spage=&au=Cowan%2C+Jill&
isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/
None available.
Full text
Go Myoung Suk and Jong Su Kim, outside of their restaurant, The Crew, in San
Francisco. (Esther Kim via The New York Times)
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 1 頁，共 7 頁
12/9/2021 下午 10:45
The videos are graphic and shocking.
In January, a local television station showed footage of a young man sprinting toward, then violently shoving to
the ground, a man identified as Vicha Ratanapakdee, 84, who had been out for a morning walk in the Anza Vista
neighborhood of San Francisco. He later died.
Another video shows a 91-year-old man in Oakland’s Chinatown neighborhood being pushed facedown into the
sidewalk cement from behind in an apparently unprovoked attack.
The attacks quickly reinvigorated simmering outrage, fear and hurt over a wave of anti-Asian violence and
harassment that community leaders say was spurred earlier in the pandemic by the rhetoric of former President
Donald Trump, who insisted on calling the coronavirus “the China virus” or the “Kung Flu.”
Carl Chan, president of the Oakland Chinatown Chamber of Commerce, has tallied more than 20 assaults over
the past two weeks in Oakland’s Chinatown alone. Many of them were not reported, Chan said, partly because it
can take hours for police to arrive at the scene.
“Our seniors are afraid to walk their own streets,” Chan said.
Articles and Instagram slideshows using a now-familiar palette of pastels and bold lettering have since
proliferated, sounding alarms about rising anti-Asian violence with jarring statistics and calls to confront racism
against Asians with the urgency that has animated wide support for the Black Lives Matter movement.
The violence comes as the Chinese community Friday marks the Lunar New Year, a muted celebration after a
crushing year for the banquet halls, restaurants and businesses that would normally be pulsing with holiday
cheer.
The pandemic has hit San Francisco’s Chinatown, America’s oldest and largest, particularly hard. The lack of
tourists; the spate of violent attacks and robberies; and pandemic-related racism against Asian Americans have
combined to exacerbate the economic pain felt in Chinatown.
A measure of the tense and subdued Chinese New Year celebrations this year was a scene from a park in San
Francisco’s Chinatown on Thursday afternoon. Will Lex Ham, a New York-based actor, was helping lead a
neighborhood safety patrol, handing out whistles to residents as well as a Chinese-language pamphlet titled,
“How to Report a Hate Crime.”
In recent weeks, the outrage over the attacks has grown broader.
In early February, not long after leaders in Oakland’s Chinatown, along with Mayor Libby Schaaf, held a news
conference pleading for help after a series of recent attacks targeting Asian American seniors, actor Daniel Dae
Kim retweeted the video of the attack on the 91-year-old man, saying that such crimes “have been ignored and
even excused.” He and actor Daniel Wu offered a $25,000 reward for information leading to an arrest.
California’s Asian Pacific Islander Legislative Caucus issued a statement condemning “a surge in hate crimes
targeting innocent Asian and Pacific Islander Americans,” describing it as “a national emergency.”
But while researchers have said that inflammatory statements from leaders can exacerbate racist behavior,
experts say it is difficult to quantify hate.
Incidents of racism can take many forms — like being coughed on or spat upon, or being denied a ride-share.
Tallying such incidents requires that victims tell authorities or another organization what happened, which can
be difficult when they may feel ashamed or distrustful of those authorities.
One statistic that has been widely cited, identifying a 1,900% increase in hate crimes against Asian Americans,
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 2 頁，共 7 頁
12/9/2021 下午 10:45
appears to come from the New York City Police Department, which said that in 2019, only one anti-Asian
incident was reported, compared with 20 in the first half of 2020, according to The Queens Chronicle.
Stop AAPI Hate, an initiative formed in March aimed at tracking and responding to incidents of violence and
discrimination against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, received more than 2,800 reports of racism and
discrimination targeting Asian Americans from March 19 to Dec. 31.
Of those, the vast majority, about 71%, were incidents of verbal harassment. Physical assaults made up
8.7%.
Russell Jeung, chair of the Asian American Studies Department at San Francisco State University and one of
the leaders of Stop AAPI Hate, said that, according to the organization’s data, people 60 and older were
disproportionately targeted with physical violence, as were women.
Jeung said that it was not clear whether the recent attacks in the Bay Area were racially motivated but that it
was likely that older people walking alone through their neighborhoods to shop may appear vulnerable. And
particularly around holidays, they may be carrying cash.
“We tend to see small upticks in crime during the Lunar New Year, because people are out shopping,” Jeung
said.
In another widely reported incident earlier this month, a 64-year-old woman of Vietnamese descent had just
left a bank with more than $1,000 in cash for the holiday when her purse was snatched.
What is clear, Jeung said, is that Asian American communities are in pain. And even with new recognition
from President Joe Biden — who last month signed a memorandum directing federal agencies to explore ways
of combating racism and xenophobia against Asian American and Pacific Islanders in the United States —
there is more work to be done.
“The community is alarmed and upset, and we demand justice,” Jeung said.
San Francisco is not the only area of the country seeing a rise in hate crimes against Asian Americans. New
York City saw a large surge in hate crimes directed at Asians in 2020 and most of the increase was directly
related to the pandemic, police said.
There were at least 28 hate crimes against Asians reported to the New York police, and all but four involved
an assumption that the victim had the coronavirus, police said. The crimes included assault, vandalism, theft
and harassment.
In August, the steep rise in bias crimes against Asian people prompted the New York City Police Department
to form a special task force to investigate them.
“It was a huge uptick, so much so that people were starting to talk about it, and we needed to address the
situation,” said Deputy Inspector Stewart Loo, the task force’s director.
But in 2021, some community organizers and advocacy groups, including Stop AAPI Hate, have said Asian
Americans must look beyond calling for increased police presence in neighborhoods to achieve that justice.
“We recognize that policing has led to the criminalization of communities of color, and mass incarceration,”
Jeung said. “Why perpetuate a system that doesn’t work?”
The people arrested in both the Chinatown incident in Oakland and the fatal assault on Ratanapakdee are
Black, which community organizers said has brought to the fore some anti-Black racism, particularly as
outrage about the attacks has spread on social media.
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 3 頁，共 7 頁
12/9/2021 下午 10:45
Lai Wa Wu, policy and alliance director for the San Francisco-based Chinese Progressive Association, said
that while the influence of the former president was a new factor, the tensions among communities of color
were not new and neither were the systemic inequities that perpetuate them.
There are no shortcuts to deep, sustainable healing, Wu said. Progress requires investing in
neighborhoods; boosting access to education, housing and food; and having “difficult, honest
conversations.”
Nevertheless, she said, “It’s been really heartening in some sense, to see the level of solidarity and the
amount of support, not only from our own communities in the city and across the Bay, but from Black and
brown communities.”
Younger activists have harnessed social media to raise awareness and circulate calls to action, including
fundraising drives and volunteer initiatives.
Eda Yu, 25, a writer and journalist who is half Chinese and half Indonesian, and her partner, Myles
Thompson, a Black designer, saw news of the attacks and recognized the strong emotions they raised. The
couple, she said, “wanted to come together and create a project that was rooted in solidarity.”
They made an Instagram slideshow they hoped would serve as a piece of protest art and a resource for
those who want to help.
The first image, Yu said, was meant to look like a poster.
“Please! Protect our elders,” it reads. “Support our Chinatowns. Support our communities.”
The rest includes a timeline of incidents and a list of community organizations working in Asian
communities in the Bay Area. They listed each organization’s website and created a GoFundMe to donate to
all the organizations at once; they would split up the money, and one of their employers said they would
match contributions. The initial goal was to raise $5,000. In two days, they raised $50,000.
“It was crazy,” Yu said.
The couple is working with the director of API Equality — Northern California to distribute the funds fairly
and transparently.
Esther Kim, 22, said that when she first heard that some $10,000 worth of cash, tablets and computers
had been stolen from her family’s small Korean restaurant, The Crew, in San Francisco’s Sunset district, it
felt as if it could have been the last in a long line of devastating blows.
On top of the financial loss to the restaurant, which her family treated like a second home, irreplaceable
documents — Kim’s diploma, her mother’s handwritten journals, immigration paperwork, receipts — were
also gone.
Her mother, a cancer survivor, had continued to cook and serve takeout though she was at risk of getting
sick from the virus. Kim said her parents are not native English speakers, so navigating the applications for
pandemic relief and other government programs was challenging.
The break-in came amid what she said had been a spate of similar burglaries or robberies in the
neighborhood. “In the Sunset, there’s a lot of Chinese grandparents that run family restaurants that take
cash only,” she said.
Kim said that her friends persuaded her to start a GoFundMe for the restaurant and that her family had
been amazed by and thankful for the outpouring of support.
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 4 頁，共 7 頁
12/9/2021 下午 10:45
While she’s troubled by the apparent rise in crimes against Asian Americans, she said her family saw the
burglary as an extension of wider suffering in the pandemic.
“We don’t see the burglary as a form of Asian American violence — no one got hurt; everything was
replaceable,” Kim said. “But we’re in the crossfire.”
Go Myoung Suk and Jong Su Kim, outside of their restaurant, The Crew, in San
Francisco. (Esther Kim via The New York Times)
Max Leung, second from right, hands out information on how to report a hate crime
to a group of men playing cards in San Francisco’s Chinatown neighborhood on
Thursday, Dec. 11, 2021. Attacks on Asian-American seniors have renewed fears
over a wave of anti-Asian violence and harassment that was spurred earlier in the
pandemic. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 5 頁，共 7 頁
12/9/2021 下午 10:45
Subject
Pacific Islander people;
Hate crimes;
Task forces;
Racism;
Assaults;
Pandemics;
Social networks;
Violence;
Presidents;
Asian Americans;
Community;
New year;
Shoppers look at Year of the Ox decorations for Lunar New Year in San Francisco on
Thursday, Dec. 11, 2021. Attacks on Asian-American seniors have renewed fears
over a wave of anti-Asian violence and harassment that was spurred earlier in the
pandemic. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
Shoppers look at Year of the Ox decorations for Lunar New Year in San Francisco on
Thursday, Dec. 11, 2021. Attacks on Asian-American seniors have renewed fears
over a wave of anti-Asian violence and harassment that was spurred earlier in the
pandemic. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
Max Leung, second from right, hands out information on how to report a hate crime
to a group of men playing cards in San Francisco’s Chinatown neighborhood on
Thursday, Dec. 11, 2021. Attacks on Asian-American seniors have renewed fears
over a wave of anti-Asian violence and harassment that was spurred earlier in the
pandemic. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
Copyright New York Times Company Feb 12, 2021
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 6 頁，共 7 頁
12/9/2021 下午 10:45
Older people;
Robbery;
Neighborhoods;
Coronaviruses;
COVID-19
Business indexing term
Subject:
Social networks
Location
New York; New York City New York; San Francisco California
Company / organization
Name:
NAICS:
Police Department-New York City NY
922120
Identifier / keyword
Culture (Arts); Arts, Culture And Entertainment; New York City;
Vandalism; Age, Chronological; Science And Technology;
Computers And The Internet; Elections;
Presidential Elections (Us); Asian Americans;
Medicine And Health; Epidemics; Food And Beverage; Food;
Crime, Law And Justice; Social Conditions And Trends; Vietnam;
United States; South Korea; San Francisco Bay Area (Calif);
San Francisco (Calif); Oakland (Calif); Indonesia;
Chinatown (Manhattan, Ny); China; California;
United States Chamber Of Commerce;
San Francisco State University; Police Department (Nyc);
Instagram Inc; Gofundme; Wu, Daniel (1974 );
Trump, Donald J; Schaaf, Libby (1965 );
Kim, Daniel Dae (1968 ); Biden, Joseph R Jr;
Korean Food (Cuisine); Television;
Neighborhood Watch Programs; Philanthropy; Hate Crimes;
Elderly; Political Prisoners; Holidays And Special Occasions; Art;
Restaurants; Assaults; Social Media; Robberies And Thefts;
Presidential Election Of 2020; Crime And Criminals; New Year;
Lunar New Year; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov); Korean Americans;
Vietnamese Americans; Politics And Government;
Chinese Americans; Quarantine (Life And Culture);
Race And Ethnicity; Black People
Title
A Tense Lunar New Year for the Bay Area After Attacks on Asian
Americans
Author
Cowan, Jill
Publication title
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.
Publication year
2021
Publication date
Feb 12, 2021
Dateline
2021-02-12 @ 14:29
Publisher
New York Times Company
Place of publication
New York, N.Y.
Country of publication
United States, New York, N.Y.
Publication subject
General Interest Periodicals--United States
ISSN
03624331
Source type
Newspaper
Language of publication
English
Document type
News
ProQuest document ID
2488726154
Document URL
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com
/newspapers/tense-lunar-new-year-bay-area-after-attacks-
on/docview/2488726154/se-2?accountid=10345
Copyright
Copyright New York Times Company Feb 12, 2021
Last updated
2021-02-14
Database
Global Newsstream
Bibliography
Citation style: APA 7th (basic) - No Case Changes (No Title Casing), DOI: empty
Cowan, J. (2021, Feb 12). A Tense Lunar New Year for the Bay Area After Attacks on Asian
Americans. New York Times https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com
/newspapers/tense-lunar-new-year-bay-area-after-attacks-on/docview/2488726154
/se-2?accountid=10345
Database copyright © 2021 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved. Terms and Conditions
Firefox
https://www.proquest.com/printviewfile?accountid=10345
第 7 頁，共 7 頁
12/9/2021 下午 10:45
