ProQuest
document 1 of 1
Full Text | Newspaper
To Combat Anti-Asian Attacks, New Yorkers Join Neighborhood Watch Patrols
Petri, A. E. (2021, Apr 10). To Combat Anti-Asian Attacks, New Yorkers Join Neighborhood Watch Patrols. New York Times
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/combat-anti-asian-attacks-new-yorkers-
join/docview/2510622993/se-2?accountid=10345
The New York Times
Find a copy
Check One Search for Availability
http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88-
2004&rft_val_fmt=info:ofi/fmt:kev: mtx:journal&genre=article&sid=ProQ: ProQ%3Anytimes &atitle=To+Combat+Anti-
Asian+Attacks%2C+New+Yorkers+Join+Neighborhood+Watch
+Patrols&title=New+York+Times&issn=03624331&date=2021-04-
10&volume=&issue=&spage=&au=Petri%2C+Alexandra +E&isbn=&jtitle=New+York+Times&btitle=&rft_id=info:eric/&rft_id=info:doi/
Abstract
None available.
Full text
Main Street Patrol volunteers in Flushing, Queens, on March 26, 2021. Alarmed
and outraged by a surge in racist violence, citizens band together to make city
streets safer. (Stephanie Keith/The New York Times)
NEW YORK One recent Saturday afternoon, Teresa Ting passed out purple medical masks the same color as the 7 train
that connects Flushing, Queens, to Manhattan - among a group of 14 volunteers gathered on the steps of the massive
Flushing post office on Main Street. A spreadsheet on Ting's phone detailed the day's watch routes in the neighborhood. One
team would monitor Main Street, another would take Prince Street and 37th Avenue.
A third group would patrol the blocks between Union Street and College Point Boulevard on Roosevelt Avenue, where a man
shoved an Asian American woman to the ground outside a bakery in February.
The attack galvanized Ting to form Main Street Patrol, a volunteer safety group that casts a watchful eye over downtown
Flushing, equipped with little more than safe intervention strategies and a walkie-talkie app on their phones. ProQuest document 1 of 1 Full Text | Newspaper To Combat Anti - Asian Attacks , New Yorkers Join Neighborhood Watch Patrols Petri , A. E. ( 2021 , Apr 10 ) . To Combat Anti - Asian Attacks , New Yorkers Join Neighborhood Watch Patrols . New York Times https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/combat-anti-asian-attacks-new-yorkers- join / docview / 2510622993 / se - 2 ? accountid = 10345 The New York Times Find a copy Check One Search for Availability http://sfx.calstate.edu:9003/csub?url_ver=Z39.88- 2004 & rft_val_fmt = info : ofi / fmt : kev : mtx : journal & genre = article & sid = ProQ : ProQ % 3Anytimes & atitle = To + Combat + Anti- Asian + Attacks % 2C + New + Yorkers + Join + Neighborhood + Watch + Patrols & title = New + York + Times & issn = 03624331 & date = 2021-04- 10 & volume = & issue = & spage = & au = Petri % 2C + Alexandra + E & isbn = & jtitle = New + York + Times & btitle = & rft_id = info : eric / & rft_id = info : doi / Abstract None available . Full text Main Street Patrol volunteers in Flushing , Queens , on March 26 , 2021. Alarmed and outraged by a surge in racist violence , citizens band together to make city streets safer . ( Stephanie Keith / The New York Times ) NEW YORK One recent Saturday afternoon , Teresa Ting passed out purple medical masks the same color as the 7 train that connects Flushing , Queens , to Manhattan - among a group of 14 volunteers gathered on the steps of the massive Flushing post office on Main Street . A spreadsheet on Ting's phone detailed the day's watch routes in the neighborhood . One team would monitor Main Street , another would take Prince Street and 37th Avenue . A third group would patrol the blocks between Union Street and College Point Boulevard on Roosevelt Avenue , where a man shoved an Asian American woman to the ground outside a bakery in February . The attack galvanized Ting to form Main Street Patrol , a volunteer safety group that casts a watchful eye over downtown Flushing , equipped with little more than safe intervention strategies and a walkie - talkie app on their phones . Ting, an actress and Queens native, works with a rotating cast of volunteers from different parts of the city and walks of life,
driven by outrage at unprovoked assaults against Asian Americans and inaction by bystanders.
all
"This past year has taken a toll," Ting said. "Something needed to be done." As it happens, that Saturday was her 30th
birthday — her second celebration in a pandemic but her first in her new role safeguarding the community.
Asian Americans are grappling with fear, rage and anxiety brought on by attacks against people of Asian descent, particularly
older men and women. In an especially egregious episode a little more than a week ago, a 65-year-old Filipino woman was
brutally assaulted in broad daylight outside a luxury apartment building in midtown Manhattan. Two lobby staff members who
witnessed the assault but failed to intervene have been fired.
After each case, Asian Americans express shock and pain but point to a long history of bigotry that has been magnified during
the pandemic. Advocates also attribute the current climate to former President Donald Trump and his use of damning and
inaccurate phrases like "the China virus."
The New York Police Department has received 35 reports of anti-Asian hate crimes already this year, compared with 28 in all of
2020 and only three in 2019. Officials say the data fails to paint a full picture, as many incidents go unreported or are not
categorized as hate crimes.
As the attacks mount, Asian Americans and their allies are hoping to make their streets safer.
In addition to Main Street Patrol, whose volunteers take weekend shifts in downtown Flushing, at least three other similar
groups have formed during the pandemic. A series of assaults against women in East Williamsburg, Brooklyn, in January led to
SafeWalks NYC, which offers escorts at train stations in various neighborhoods, including Manhattan's Chinatown.
And in February last year, Karlin Chan, a community activist, formed the Chinatown Block Watch, whose participants keep watch
over an area that is the birthplace of Chinese culture in New York City. Chan, who is in his mid-60s, is aware of the risks he
faces as he roves the neighborhood.
"With my beautiful crop of gray hair, there is a target on my back," he said. But the urgency of the moment attracted Chan, who
experienced racism as a child growing up in Chinatown in the early 1960s. He leads volunteers along Mott Street and Grand
Street, as well as the blocks under the Manhattan Bridge, to check in with the neighborhood's residents and business owners.
Civilian patrols have a long and mixed history in New York City. Most notable is the Guardian Angels, founded in the late 1970s,
when economic blight helped fuel a wave of violent crime across the city. Known for their red berets and bullish presence, the
Guardian Angels emerged as a crime-fighting patrol on the subways, acquiring a kind of hero status while simultaneously
drawing the ire of politicians and transit officials for their vigilante justice.
After a prolonged period of low crime in New York City, the Guardian Angels have reemerged with the sharp increase that has
coincided with the pandemic, and they have spent time on the ground in Chinatown this past year. The group's founder, Curtis
Sliwa, announced in March that he was running as a Republican in the city's 2021 mayoral race.
But Main Street is quick to stress that it focuses on intervention rather than deterrence.
"We want to remain a little more covert, so we blend in more and we can actually run into catching more situations rather than
suppressing them," Ting said.
The one incident the group has run into got hairy after a patroller started recording two young men who were overheard
making racist remarks and threatening to harm an older man. The men became agitated and knocked the patroller's phone out
of his hand, eventually fleeing.
The group later revised some of its protocols, stressing that volunteers should record episodes only if they can do so from a
safe distance.
While civilian patrols do not have official approval of the Police Department, they work in concert with officers by being "an extra
set of eyes and ears," said Capt. Paul J. Zangrilli in Chinatown's Fifth Precinct. Earlier this year, for example, when teams of
pickpockets were targeting older women, Chan's Chinatown Block Watch provided the police with information that ultimately led
to the apprehension of both groups.
"They have added to our success in their heightened vigilance and heightened awareness out in the community," Zangrilli said.
As Main Street Patrol was winding down its Saturday tour in Flushing, another group was assembling in Confucius Plaza in
Manhattan. Ricky Yang stood behind a folding table with a sign that read "Protect Chinatown," the group he established in Ting , an actress and Queens native , works with a rotating cast of volunteers from different parts of the city and walks of life , driven by outrage at unprovoked assaults against Asian Americans and inaction by bystanders . all " This past year has taken a toll , " Ting said . " Something needed to be done . " As it happens , that Saturday was her 30th birthday — her second celebration in a pandemic but her first in her new role safeguarding the community . Asian Americans are grappling with fear , rage and anxiety brought on by attacks against people of Asian descent , particularly older men and women . In an especially egregious episode a little more than a week ago , a 65 - year - old Filipino woman was brutally assaulted in broad daylight outside a luxury apartment building in midtown Manhattan . Two lobby staff members who witnessed the assault but failed to intervene have been fired . After each case , Asian Americans express shock and pain but point to a long history of bigotry that has been magnified during the pandemic . Advocates also attribute the current climate to former President Donald Trump and his use of damning and inaccurate phrases like " the China virus . " The New York Police Department has received 35 reports of anti - Asian hate crimes already this year , compared with 28 in all of 2020 and only three in 2019. Officials say the data fails to paint a full picture , as many incidents go unreported or are not categorized as hate crimes . As the attacks mount , Asian Americans and their allies are hoping to make their streets safer . In addition to Main Street Patrol , whose volunteers take weekend shifts in downtown Flushing , at least three other similar groups have formed during the pandemic . A series of assaults against women in East Williamsburg , Brooklyn , in January led to SafeWalks NYC , which offers escorts at train stations in various neighborhoods , including Manhattan's Chinatown . And in February last year , Karlin Chan , a community activist , formed the Chinatown Block Watch , whose participants keep watch over an area that is the birthplace of Chinese culture in New York City . Chan , who is in his mid - 60s , is aware of the risks he faces as he roves the neighborhood . " With my beautiful crop of gray hair , there is a target on my back , " he said . But the urgency of the moment attracted Chan , who experienced racism as a child growing up in Chinatown in the early 1960s . He leads volunteers along Mott Street and Grand Street , as well as the blocks under the Manhattan Bridge , to check in with the neighborhood's residents and business owners . Civilian patrols have a long and mixed history in New York City . Most notable is the Guardian Angels , founded in the late 1970s , when economic blight helped fuel a wave of violent crime across the city . Known for their red berets and bullish presence , the Guardian Angels emerged as a crime - fighting patrol on the subways , acquiring a kind of hero status while simultaneously drawing the ire of politicians and transit officials for their vigilante justice . After a prolonged period of low crime in New York City , the Guardian Angels have reemerged with the sharp increase that has coincided with the pandemic , and they have spent time on the ground in Chinatown this past year . The group's founder , Curtis Sliwa , announced in March that he was running as a Republican in the city's 2021 mayoral race . But Main Street is quick to stress that it focuses on intervention rather than deterrence . " We want to remain a little more covert , so we blend in more and we can actually run into catching more situations rather than suppressing them , " Ting said . The one incident the group has run into got hairy after a patroller started recording two young men who were overheard making racist remarks and threatening to harm an older man . The men became agitated and knocked the patroller's phone out of his hand , eventually fleeing . The group later revised some of its protocols , stressing that volunteers should record episodes only if they can do so from a safe distance . While civilian patrols do not have official approval of the Police Department , they work in concert with officers by being " an extra set of eyes and ears , " said Capt . Paul J. Zangrilli in Chinatown's Fifth Precinct . Earlier this year , for example , when teams of pickpockets were targeting older women , Chan's Chinatown Block Watch provided the police with information that ultimately led to the apprehension of both groups . " They have added to our success in their heightened vigilance and heightened awareness out in the community , " Zangrilli said . As Main Street Patrol was winding down its Saturday tour in Flushing , another group was assembling in Confucius Plaza in Manhattan . Ricky Yang stood behind a folding table with a sign that read " Protect Chinatown , " the group he established in February as a chaperone service, which got off to a slow start. Now the group was setting out on foot patrols, in part to raise
awareness about its services and to monitor the streets. As volunteers mobilized, one older man of Asian descent stopped to
ask a question, not about safety measures but about the COVID-19 vaccine.
Before sending teams out, Yang, 27, emphasized hypervigilance. Like Main Street, Protect Chinatown is focused on safe
intervention.
"If someone was punching me in the face, I would want someone to step in," Yang said. "Now all anyone does is take out their
phone and record."
Among those patrolling that day was Ian Tan, a 24-year-old who works in commercial production. Tan has volunteered as a
chaperone and also attended Protect Chinatown's first patrol the weekend before.
"I wish I didn't have to do this," he said, sounding exasperated, "but it feels like no one else will."
Tan led a team of five east along Division Street to patrol the Two Bridges neighborhood. Other groups took on the north and
east side of Chinatown.
"The world shouldn't have to have initiatives like this," Yang said, adding that he hopes that one day, people will again feel safe
in their communities and services like Protect Chinatown's will be unnecessary. "The whole goal is that it can be dissolved."
Volunteers hand out fliers in Manhattan's Chinatown on March 26, 2021, about
the Safe Walks NYC program, which offers to escort people from subway stations.
Alarmed and outraged by a surge in racist violence, citizens band together to
make city streets safer. (Stephanie Keith/The New York Times)
Volunteers gathers in Confucius Plaza in Manhattan for patrols under the
auspices of Protect Chinatown, a group formed by Ricky Yang, on April 3, 2021.
Alarmed and outraged by a surge in racist violence, citizens band together to
make city streets safer. (Stephanie Keith/The New York Times) February as a chaperone service , which got off to a slow start . Now the group was setting out on foot patrols , in part to raise awareness about its services and to monitor the streets . As volunteers mobilized , one older man of Asian descent stopped to ask a question , not about safety measures but about the COVID - 19 vaccine . Before sending teams out , Yang , 27 , emphasized hypervigilance . Like Main Street , Protect Chinatown is focused on safe intervention . " If someone was punching me in the face , I would want someone to step in , " Yang said . " Now all anyone does is take out their phone and record . " Among those patrolling that day was Ian Tan , a 24 - year - old who works in commercial production . Tan has volunteered as a chaperone and also attended Protect Chinatown's first patrol the weekend before . " I wish I didn't have to do this , " he said , sounding exasperated , " but it feels like no one else will . " Tan led a team of five east along Division Street to patrol the Two Bridges neighborhood . Other groups took on the north and east side of Chinatown . " The world shouldn't have to have initiatives like this , " Yang said , adding that he hopes that one day , people will again feel safe in their communities and services like Protect Chinatown's will be unnecessary . " The whole goal is that it can be dissolved . " Volunteers hand out fliers in Manhattan's Chinatown on March 26 , 2021 , about the Safe Walks NYC program , which offers to escort people from subway stations . Alarmed and outraged by a surge in racist violence , citizens band together to make city streets safer . ( Stephanie Keith / The New York Times ) Volunteers gathers in Confucius Plaza in Manhattan for patrols under the auspices of Protect Chinatown , a group formed by Ricky Yang , on April 3 , 2021 . Alarmed and outraged by a surge in racist violence , citizens band together to make city streets safer . ( Stephanie Keith / The New York Times ) Volunteers hand out fliers in Manhattan's Chinatown on March 26, 2021, about
the Safe Walks NYC program, which offers to escort people from subway stations.
Alarmed and outraged by a surge in racist violence, citizens band together to
make city streets safer. (Stephanie Keith/The New York Times)
Volunteers hand out fliers in Manhattan's Chinatown on March 26, 2021, about
the SafeWalks NYC program, which offers to escort people from subway stations.
Alarmed and outraged by a surge in racist violence, citizens band together to
make city streets safer. (Stephanie Keith/The New York Times)
Copyright New York Times Company Apr 10, 2021
Subject
Bands;
Hate crimes;
Racism;
Teams;
Assaults;
Intervention;
Pandemics;
Violence;
Asian Americans;
Women;
Neighborhoods;
Location
People
Identifier / keyword
Title
Author
Publication title
Publication year
Publication date
Dateline
COVID-19
New York; New York City New York; United States--US
Confucius (551-479 BC)
Elections; Medicine And Health; Epidemics; Real Estate And Home; Buildings (Structures);
Transportation; Economy, Commerce And Industry; Corporations; Gender;
Arts, Culture And Entertainment; United States Politics And Government;
Presidential Elections (Us); Religion And Belief; Crime, Law And Justice;
Social Conditions And Trends; Race And Ethnicity; United States;
Two Bridges (Manhattan, Ny); Roosevelt Avenue (Queens, Ny); Queens (Nyc); Philippines;
New York City; Midtown Area (Manhattan, Ny); Manhattan Bridge (Nyc); Manhattan (Nyc);
Flushing (Queens, Ny); East Williamsburg (Brooklyn, Ny); College Point (Queens, Ny);
Chinatown (Manhattan, Ny); China; Brooklyn (Nyc); Republican Party;
Police Department (Nyc); New York Times; Guardian Angels; Trump, Donald J; Sliwa, Curtis;
Confucius; Lobbying And Lobbyists; Television; Stations And Terminals (Passenger);
Neighborhood Watch Programs; Vigilantes; Crime And Criminals; Hate Crimes; Birthdays;
Confucianism; Elections, Mayors; Age, Chronological; Politics And Government;
Presidential Election Of 2020; Fugitives; Mergers, Acquisitions And Divestitures;
Women And Girls; Assaults; Transit Systems; Chinese Americans; Coronavirus (2019 Ncov);
Volunteers And Community Service; Discrimination
To Combat Anti-Asian Attacks, New Yorkers Join Neighborhood Watch Patrols
Petri, Alexandra E
New York Times, Late Edition (East Coast); New York, N.Y.
2021
Apr 10, 2021
2021-04-10 @ 17:24 Volunteers hand out fliers in Manhattan's Chinatown on March 26 , 2021 , about the Safe Walks NYC program , which offers to escort people from subway stations . Alarmed and outraged by a surge in racist violence , citizens band together to make city streets safer . ( Stephanie Keith / The New York Times ) Volunteers hand out fliers in Manhattan's Chinatown on March 26 , 2021 , about the SafeWalks NYC program , which offers to escort people from subway stations . Alarmed and outraged by a surge in racist violence , citizens band together to make city streets safer . ( Stephanie Keith / The New York Times ) Copyright New York Times Company Apr 10 , 2021 Subject Bands ; Hate crimes ; Racism ; Teams ; Assaults ; Intervention ; Pandemics ; Violence ; Asian Americans ; Women ; Neighborhoods ; Location People Identifier / keyword Title Author Publication title Publication year Publication date Dateline COVID - 19 New York ; New York City New York ; United States -- US Confucius ( 551-479 BC ) Elections ; Medicine And Health ; Epidemics ; Real Estate And Home ; Buildings ( Structures ) ; Transportation ; Economy , Commerce And Industry ; Corporations ; Gender ; Arts , Culture And Entertainment ; United States Politics And Government ; Presidential Elections ( Us ) ; Religion And Belief ; Crime , Law And Justice ; Social Conditions And Trends ; Race And Ethnicity ; United States ; Two Bridges ( Manhattan , Ny ) ; Roosevelt Avenue ( Queens , Ny ) ; Queens ( Nyc ) ; Philippines ; New York City ; Midtown Area ( Manhattan , Ny ) ; Manhattan Bridge ( Nyc ) ; Manhattan ( Nyc ) ; Flushing ( Queens , Ny ) ; East Williamsburg ( Brooklyn , Ny ) ; College Point ( Queens , Ny ) ; Chinatown ( Manhattan , Ny ) ; China ; Brooklyn ( Nyc ) ; Republican Party ; Police Department ( Nyc ) ; New York Times ; Guardian Angels ; Trump , Donald J ; Sliwa , Curtis ; Confucius ; Lobbying And Lobbyists ; Television ; Stations And Terminals ( Passenger ) ; Neighborhood Watch Programs ; Vigilantes ; Crime And Criminals ; Hate Crimes ; Birthdays ; Confucianism ; Elections , Mayors ; Age , Chronological ; Politics And Government ; Presidential Election Of 2020 ; Fugitives ; Mergers , Acquisitions And Divestitures ; Women And Girls ; Assaults ; Transit Systems ; Chinese Americans ; Coronavirus ( 2019 Ncov ) ; Volunteers And Community Service ; Discrimination To Combat Anti - Asian Attacks , New Yorkers Join Neighborhood Watch Patrols Petri , Alexandra E New York Times , Late Edition ( East Coast ) ; New York , N.Y. 2021 Apr 10 , 2021 2021-04-10 @ 17:24 Publisher
Place of publication
Country of publication
Publication subject
ISSN
Source type
Language of publication
Document type
ProQuest document ID
Document URL
Copyright
Last updated
Database
New York Times Company
New York, N.Y.
United States, New York, N.Y.
General Interest Periodicals--United States
03624331
Newspaper
English
News
2510622993
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/combat-anti-
asian-attacks-new-yorkers-join/docview/2510622993/se-2?accountid=10345
Copyright New York Times Company Apr 10, 2021
2022-09-06
Global Newsstream
Bibliography
Citation style: APA 7th - American Psychological Association, 7th Edition
Petri, A. E. (2021, Apr 10). To Combat Anti-Asian Attacks, New Yorkers Join Neighborhood Watch Patrols. New York Times
https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/combat-anti-asian-attacks-new-yorkers-
join/docview/2510622993/se-2?accountid=10345
Database copyright © 2022 ProQuest LLC. All rights reserved. Terms and Conditions Publisher Place of publication Country of publication Publication subject ISSN Source type Language of publication Document type ProQuest document ID Document URL Copyright Last updated Database New York Times Company New York , N.Y. United States , New York , N.Y. General Interest Periodicals -- United States 03624331 Newspaper English News 2510622993 https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/combat-anti- asian - attacks - new - yorkers - join / docview / 2510622993 / se - 2 ? accountid = 10345 Copyright New York Times Company Apr 10 , 2021 2022-09-06 Global Newsstream Bibliography Citation style : APA 7th - American Psychological Association , 7th Edition Petri , A. E. ( 2021 , Apr 10 ) . To Combat Anti - Asian Attacks , New Yorkers Join Neighborhood Watch Patrols . New York Times https://falcon.lib.csub.edu/login?url=https://www.proquest.com/newspapers/combat-anti-asian-attacks-new-yorkers- join / docview / 2510622993 / se - 2 ? accountid = 10345 Database copyright © 2022 ProQuest LLC . All rights reserved . Terms and Conditions 